The Chief Executive’s 2017 Policy Address
We Connect for
Hope and Happiness
I. Introduction: A New Beginning 1–6
II. Good Governance 7–34
My Belief 7
Executive Authorities 8–18
New Roles for the Government 8–9
Upholding the Principle of Meritocracy 10–11
Open and Transparent Government 12
Boosting Implementation Capabilities 13–15
Augmenting the civil service establishment 13
Extending the service of civil servants 14
Establishing a new civil service college 15
Stepping up Collaboration Across Bureaux and
Departments 16–18
Revamping the Central Policy Unit 16
Transferring the Efficiency Unit to the
Innovation and Technology Bureau 17
Legal Aid Department to come under the
Chief Secretary for Administration’s Office 18
Judiciary 19–20
Law Reform Commission 21
Archives Law 22
Legislating for Article 23 of the Basic Law 23
Article 45 of the Basic Law: Selection of the Chief
Executive by Universal Suffrage 24
Executive-Legislature Relationship 25–26
District Administration 27–28
Integrity 29
Public Finance 30
The Chief Executive’s Mission and Leadership 31–34
The Chief Executive’s Council of Advisers on
Innovation and Strategic Development 32
Steering Committee on Innovation and Technology 33
Chief Executive Summits 34
Contents
Paragraph
Paragraph
III. Diversified Economy 35–120
My Belief 35
Hong Kong’s Current Economic Situation and Outlook 36–38
Land Supply for Economic Development 39–45
Industrial/Commercial Sites 39
Logistics Sites 40
Convention and Exhibition Sites 41–44
Revitalisation of Industrial Buildings 45
Talent 46
Government-to-Government Business 47–52
Enhanced Co-operation with the Mainland 53–55
Policy Directions 56–61
Opportunities Arising from the Belt and Road
Initiative 57–59
Development of the Guangdong-Hong KongMacao
Bay Area 60–61
Investment 62
A Business-friendly Environment 63–64
New Taxation Proposal 65–68
Innovation and Technology 69–83
Smart City 80–83
Creative Industries 84–96
Finance 97–103
Transportation Services and Logistics Industry 104–106
Tourism 107–110
Construction and Related Professional Services
Sectors 111–113
Legal Services 114–116
Broadcasting 117–119
Agriculture and Fisheries Industry 120
Paragraph
IV. Nurturing Talent 121–139
My Belief 121
Vision on Education 122
New Education Resources 123
Further Review on Eight Key Areas of Education 124–125
Kindergarten Education 126
Post-secondary Education 127–128
Children with Special Educational Needs 129
Enhancing Teaching Facilities in Primary and
Secondary Schools 130
Qualifications Framework 131
Understanding Chinese History and Culture, and
Developments of Our Country 132
Lifelong Learning 133
Human Resources Planning 134
Importation of Labour 135
Women Workforce 136–137
Talent Hub 138–139
V. Improving People’s Livelihood 140–209
My Belief 140
Housing 141–152
Present Situation 141
Land Supply 142–143
Housing Policy 144
Public Rental Housing and Green Form
Subsidised Home Ownership Scheme 145–147
Resale of Home Ownership Scheme Flats and
Subsidised Flats 148–149
 “Starter Homes” Pilot Scheme for Hong Kong
Residents 150–152
Community Initiatives on Social Housing 153–154
Healthcare Services 155–174
Improving Healthcare System and Services 155
Primary Healthcare 156–159
Paragraph
Services of the Hospital Authority 160–164
Support for Uncommon Diseases 165–166
Enhancing Public Health Regulation 167
Promoting Voluntary Health Insurance Scheme
and Scientific Research 168
Development of Chinese Medicine 169–174
Social Welfare 175–200
Poverty Alleviation 175
Low-income Working Family Allowance 176–181
Elderly Services 182–186
Rehabilitation Services 187–189
Special Needs Trust 190
Commission on Children 191–193
Food Assistance Service 194
Promoting the Employment of Persons with
Disabilities 195–196
Providing Support for Ethnic Minorities 197–200
Labour Rights 201–203
Abolishing the “Offsetting” Arrangement under
the Mandatory Provident Fund System 201
Improving Employees’ Benefits 202
Occupational Safety and Health 203
Relieving the Burden of Public Transport Expenses 204
Municipal Services 205–207
Public Markets 205
Environmental Hygiene 206
Policy on Burial 207
Food Safety 208–209
VI. Liveable City 210–261
My Belief 210
Transport 211–217
Public Transport Strategy Study 212
Barrier-free Transport 213
Road Infrastructure 214
Paragraph
Railway 215–216
Alleviating Road Traffic Congestion 217
Co-location Arrangement for the GuangzhouShenzhen-Hong
Kong Express Rail Link 218
The Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao Bridge 219
Pedestrian-friendly Environment 220
City Management 221–229
Building Safety 223–226
Drinking Water Safety 227
Water Quality of the Victoria Harbour 228
Beautification of the Harbourfront 229
Environment and Nature Conservation 230–250
Climate Change and Energy 230–236
Air Quality 237–239
Waste Reduction and Recycling 240–245
Nature Conservation 246–248
Countryside Revitalisation 249–250
Heritage Conservation 251–252
Intangible Cultural Heritage 251
Historic Buildings 252
Arts and Culture 253–256
Sports Development 257–260
Safe City 261
VII. Connecting with Young People 262–272
My Belief 262
Youth Development Commission 263
Stepping up Communication with Young People 264
Participation of Young People in Policy Discussion 265
Participation of Young People in Politics 266
Expectation on Young People 267
Broadening Horizons 268–271
Scholarship for Excellence Scheme 268
Paragraph
Overseas Internships Arranged by Economic and
Trade Offices 269
Enhanced Internship in the Mainland 270
Working Holiday 271
Space Sharing Scheme for Youth 272
VIII. Conclusion 273–275
1
Mr President, Honourable Members and fellow
citizens,
I. Introduction: A New Beginning
1. Today, I am most honoured to present my first Policy Address in my
capacity as Chief Executive, sharing my governance philosophy and
elaborating on the vision and initiatives of the current‑term Government for
different policy areas. I hope that this Policy Address will set new starting
points for Hong Kong in areas such as governance, economic development,
housing, education, healthcare, and chart the gradual delivery of the pledge
that I made in my inaugural speech about connecting with you to build an
even better Hong Kong.
2. This year marks the 20th anniversary of Hong Kong’s return to the
Motherland, a milestone for us to build on our achievements and begin a new
chapter of development. In his keynote address delivered at the Meeting
Celebrating the 20th Anniversary of Hong Kong’s Return to the Motherland
and the Inaugural Ceremony of the Fifth‑term Government of the Hong Kong
Special Administrative Region (HKSAR), President Xi Jinping said with deep
sincerity that the destiny of Hong Kong has always been intricately bound with
that of the Motherland. In the last two decades, thanks to the support of the
Motherland and with an international vision, Hong Kong has kept its distinct
features and strengths. This fully demonstrates that “One Country, Two
Systems” is the best institutional arrangement to ensure Hong Kong’s long‑term
prosperity and stability after our return to the Motherland. It is a workable
solution and an achievable goal welcomed by the people. Thus, everybody
with a passion for Hong Kong has the responsibility to ensure that, here in
Hong Kong, “One Country, Two Systems” advances in the right direction, the
obligation to say ‘no’ to any attempt to threaten our country’s sovereignty,
security and development interests, as well as the duty to nurture our next
generation into citizens with a sense of national identity, an affection for Hong
Kong and a sense of social responsibility.
3. Hong Kong is facing challenges on many fronts. On economic
development, we need to consolidate and enhance our traditional advantages
while developing new areas of economic growth as a matter of urgency. I
propose that the Government should be more proactive and play the role of a
“facilitator” and a “promoter”. We should seize the opportunities brought by
the national Belt and Road Initiative and the Guangdong‑Hong Kong‑Macao
Bay Area (Bay Area) development, make good use of the autonomy enjoyed by 
2
the HKSAR in developing our external affairs as provided under the Basic Law,
and make timely investments in order to create new impetus for our economy.
The economy chapter in this Policy Address elucidates our views on the
prospects of various trades and industries. It reflects, in particular, the
importance that we attach to innovation and technology and the creative
industries, and sets out an array of measures to spur their further development.
4. On people’s livelihood, meeting the public’s housing needs is our top
priority. The Government has no magic wands, but in the past few months the
Directors of Bureaux concerned have demonstrated their readiness to think out
of the box in a bid to address the community’s pressing needs. We strive to
meet public expectations by pursuing new directions and new initiatives. On
care for the elderly, we do not see ageing population as a threat to public
finance. We have, instead, taken the opportunity to devise a variety of effective
elderly care services. We will continue to devote resources to poverty
alleviation as well as support for the disadvantaged in order to build a caring
and inclusive society. On education, we will uphold the “professional‑led”
principle and deploy the necessary resources to nurture our next generation.
5. Strengthening governance is a key focus of the current‑term
Government. For some time in the past there was a tendency for suspicion to
breed without cause and a propensity for matters to get personal. We must
turn this round and make our best effort to improve the executive‑legislature
relationship. I pledge to continue to take concrete actions to resolve problems
for our people, following the principles of being “Innovative, Interactive and
Collaborative”.
6. I would like to extend my gratitude to Members of this Council and all
sectors of the community for offering me a wealth of suggestions during my
preparation of this Policy Address in the past three months. My thanks also go
to my devoted political team and our dedicated civil servants at all levels. In
full display of a progressive spirit, they recognise the need to change and share
a readiness to seek changes. We must cherish this new beginning and stay
engaged in charting our future. Let us join hands and work with one heart to
take Hong Kong to a new level of success.
3
II. Good Governance
My Belief
7. As a Chief Executive with 37 years of experience in public
administration, I have set good governance as the primary requirement for my
political team. Good governance is vital, whether in discharging the
responsibilities of the Government as a “service provider” or a “regulator”, or in
taking up the new roles of the Government as a “facilitator” and a “promoter”
that I advocate. Through immense contributions made by generations of Hong
Kong people and countless challenges overcome, we have established our core
values including an independent judicial system, adherence to the rule of law, a
highly efficient and clean Government, freedom of the press, respect for human
rights, pluralism and inclusiveness as well as the freedom of expression. Since
our return to the Motherland, these institutional strengths, rights and freedoms
have been protected by the Basic Law under the principle of “One Country,
Two Systems”. These constitutional bulwarks and cornerstones of a civilised
society and our moral values are unbreachable. The Government and myself
will, with our utmost endeavours, implement the “One Country, Two Systems”
principle, uphold the Basic Law and safeguard the rule of law. This is my
solemn pledge to the Central Government and the HKSAR.
Executive Authorities
New Roles for the Government
8. As Hong Kong becomes an increasingly complex society and the
expectations and demands of the community towards the Government have
continuously grown, there have been new challenges to governance. The
Government must come up with policies and measures that address the
community’s needs, respond to the pressing issues faced by the population
while displaying a strong sense of commitment and high efficiency. Thus, the
Government’s roles must also keep abreast of the times to seize the
opportunities for steady social and economic development.
9. During my election campaign, I proposed that the Government should
take up new roles other than as a “service provider” and a “regulator”. The
proposal has gained wide support from the community. In taking up the role
of a “facilitator”, the Government should be visionary, scrutinise existing
policies and measures pursuant to policy objectives, remove obstacles for our
industries, and strengthen co‑ordination and co‑operation across government
bureaux and departments, and provide “one‑stop” consultation and services as 
4
far as practicable, with a view to maximising the benefits for the community.
Furthermore, government officials should place more emphasis on the role of
the Government as a “promoter”. By strengthening the links between the
HKSAR and the Mainland as well as other countries, elevating Hong Kong’s
status as Asia’s world city, attracting Mainland and overseas enterprises and
talent to Hong Kong and, in collaboration with relevant organisations and trade
representatives, proactively conducting “government‑to‑government” (G2G)
interactions and lobbying, we seek to further expand Hong Kong’s external
relations. To set a good example by practising what I preach, I have made nine
outbound visits since my assumption of office.
Upholding the Principle of Meritocracy
10. The new term of Government attaches importance to public
participation and engagement. In the course of policy formulation, we will
listen to different sectors of the society, especially industry stakeholders,
frontline personnel as well as young people, and take account of their views
with a view to building consensus. I have called upon all policy bureaux to
uphold the principle of meritocracy and cast their net wide in scouting for
talents. Anyone with ability and the commitment to serve the community will
stand a chance to join various statutory and advisory bodies and tender advice
to the Government.
11. To further encourage public participation, the Government will
introduce a pilot self‑recommendation scheme to recruit young members as a
priority target. We have already identified five advisory committees for
inclusion in the first batch for recruiting self‑recommended young members.
These committees, covering different policy areas, include the Youth
Development Commission to be established, the Committee on the Promotion
of Civic Education, the Committee on Innovation, Technology and
Re‑industrialisation, the Environmental Campaign Committee and the Action
Committee Against Narcotics. The Home Affairs Bureau (HAB) is drawing up
a mechanism for recruitment and selection to ensure an open, fair and just
process.
Open and Transparent Government
12. In reflection of the openness and inclusiveness of the current‑term
Government and to address the aspirations of some media bodies, the
Information Services Department has introduced a mechanism for the
admission of online‑only mass news media to government media events.
I now announce that we will re‑open the East Wing Forecourt of the Central
Government Offices (CGO) as soon as possible before the end of this year, so 
5
that the East Wing Forecourt will resume its functions as a vehicular access to
the CGO, a passenger pick‑up/drop‑off point for the CGO and a passageway for
visitors and staff of the CGO and the Legislative Council Complex. Besides, we
will resume the arrangement for members of the public to make applications
for holding public meetings or processions at the East Wing Forecourt on
Sundays and public holidays. Relevant departments are making preparation
for the re‑opening of the East Wing Forecourt and details will be announced
later. I appreciate that we need to keep up our efforts in order to fully realise
the design concept of “Door always open; Land always green; Sky will be blue;
People will be connected” of the CGO.
Boosting Implementation Capabilities
Augmenting the civil service establishment
13. In view of the increasing workload across all ranks of the civil service
in recent years, I will ask the Heads of Departments to reduce the demand for
manpower by streamlining administration, fostering innovation and
collaboration, and leveraging technologies. In order to ease the work pressure
on civil servants as soon as possible and to support the Government in taking
forward various new policies and initiatives, we will, as a first step, augment
the civil service establishment. We expect an establishment growth of not less
than 3% in the 2018‑19 financial year, which will represent the highest
year‑on‑year increase since our return to the Motherland. Relevant details will
be announced in the 2018‑19 Budget.
Extending the service of civil servants
14. On the other hand, to tie in with the goal of expanding the labour force
and to respond to the aspirations of our serving colleagues in the civil service,
we have re‑examined the issue and agreed that serving civil servants joining
the Government between 1 June 2000 and 31 May 2015 (i.e. the effective date of
the policy of extending the retirement age of new recruits) will be allowed to
choose to retire at 65 (for civilian grades) or 60 (for disciplined services grades)
on a voluntary basis. The Civil Service Bureau is working out the details and
plans to consult the staff side in early 2018.
Establishing a new civil service college
15. Our civil service is well‑known for its professionalism and high
efficiency. We must, nevertheless, continue to strive for excellence through
enhanced training. The civil service must be forward‑looking, visionary as
well as innovative in order to tackle different challenges and deliver
outstanding performance in the Government’s roles as a “service provider”, 
6
“regulator”, “facilitator” and “promoter”. I propose to establish a new civil
service college with upgraded training facilities so as to further enhance
training for civil servants in the areas of leadership development, interaction
and communication with the public, innovation, use of technology, etc. The
new civil service college should also place emphasis on deepening civil
servants’ understanding of our country’s development and the relationship
between the Central Authorities and the HKSAR, enhancing their awareness of
international affairs, as well as promoting exchanges with civil servants in
other places, through which knowledge, experience and insights gained from
local public service management could be shared.
Stepping up Collaboration Across Bureaux and Departments
Revamping the Central Policy Unit
16. To tie in with the Government’s new role as a “facilitator”, I will
revamp the Central Policy Unit as the Policy Innovation and Co‑ordination
Unit. The new office will be responsible for policy research and innovation,
co‑ordination across bureaux and departments, enhancing public participation
as well as rendering assistance in co‑ordination work for cross‑bureaux policies
selected by the senior leadership of the Government. We will soon start the
recruitment of young people who aspire to be engaged in policy research as
well as policy and project co‑ordination to join the Policy Innovation and
Co‑ordination Unit proposed to be established as non‑civil service contract staff
so that they could make a contribution in shaping the future Hong Kong.
Transferring the Efficiency Unit to the Innovation and Technology
Bureau
17. With its team of professionals and network of external partners, the
Efficiency Unit (EU) has been supporting bureaux and departments in
enhancing operational efficiency and providing improved public services. In
future, it will become increasingly important to achieving this goal through the
application of innovative technology. In view of this, I propose transferring the
EU from the Chief Secretary for Administration’s Office (CSO) to the
Innovation and Technology Bureau (ITB) so that we could build a stronger
team and make better use of the $500 million earmarked for technology
application in departments to further promote innovation and technology
development within the Government.
7
Legal Aid Department to come under the Chief Secretary for
Administration’s Office
18. In view of the above restructuring of the Government, we will
implement the Legal Aid Services Council’s earlier proposal to transfer the
Legal Aid Department from the HAB to the CSO to underline the
independence of the legal aid system. As for the restructuring proposals put
forward by stakeholders of other sectors, such as the establishment of a Culture
Bureau, the splitting of the Transport and Housing Bureau, etc., we will further
listen to the views of different sectors.
Judiciary
19. The rule of law is the most important core value of Hong Kong, and
judicial independence is the linchpin in upholding the rule of law. During the
past few months, the Hong Kong courts’ decision on certain cases have sparked
some negative comments on judicial independence, with some casting doubts
about our courts’ freedom from external interference. I must solemnly point
out that the Basic Law clearly stipulates that the HKSAR enjoys independent
judicial power, including that of final adjudication, and that our courts shall
exercise judicial power independently, free from any interference. The Court of
Final Appeal is the highest appellate court in the HKSAR, consisting of the
Chief Justice and permanent judges. Non‑permanent judges from other
common law jurisdictions may also be invited to sit on the court. Since 1 July
1997, the Court of Final Appeal has been, pursuant to Article 82 of the Basic
Law, inviting judges with profound judicial experience and high professional
status and reputation from other common law jurisdictions to take part in its
hearings. This unique arrangement is the very manifestation that under the
protection of the Basic Law, the judicial system of Hong Kong has won
international recognition. The high quality and independence of the judicial
system in Hong Kong is most precious. We are fully confident that the courts
will impartially exercise their judicial power. The HKSAR Government will
continue to steadfastly safeguard judicial independence, and discharge its roles
in upholding the Basic Law and defending the rule of law.
20. The Government has all along been providing sufficient resources to
the Judiciary to ensure its effective operation. During the past seven financial
years, the Government has acceded to the Judiciary’s requests for funding and
post creation in full. To attract top talent to join the Judiciary, the Government
has also adopted all the specific measures proposed by the Judiciary to
enhance the conditions of service for judges and judicial officers. Moreover, the
Government spares no effort in improving court facilities. We have reached 
8
consensus with the Judiciary on the relocation of the High Court Building,
which is now in very congested conditions, to Site 5 of the new Central
Harbourfront (i.e. adjacent to the Legislative Council Complex) and the
construction of a District Court Complex at Caroline Hill Road to house the
District Court, the Family Court and the Lands Tribunal. Costing over
$20 billion, these projects will fully address the long‑term accommodation
needs of courts at various levels.
Law Reform Commission
21. In the context of upholding the rule of law, the Law Reform
Commission of Hong Kong (LRC) plays a key role in promoting effective law
reform. To enhance the efficiency and operation of the LRC, the Department of
Justice (DoJ) is studying the experience of law reform agencies in other
jurisdictions with a view to exploring different options for enhancing the
operation model for the LRC.
Archives Law
22. Accountability and transparency are of vital importance to good
governance. As pointed out in my Election Manifesto, I attach importance to
the integrity of government records and hold a positive view towards the
enactment of archives legislations. The LRC is studying our existing records
management system and the relevant experience of other jurisdictions, and will
conduct extensive consultation on its proposals. The Government will follow
up on this subject after receiving the report from the LRC. In the meantime,
the Government will continue to enhance its records management work.
Legislating for Article 23 of the Basic Law
23. It is the constitutional responsibility of the HKSAR Government to
legislate for Article 23 of the Basic Law in order to safeguard national security.
From experience, this issue will very readily generate controversies in the
community. The current‑term Government must act prudently after weighing
the pros and cons, and seek to create a favourable social environment for the
community to handle this constitutional obligation of the HKSAR in a positive
manner.
9
Article 45 of the Basic Law: Selection of the Chief
Executive by Universal Suffrage
24. Regrettably, after spending 20 months on the political reform package,
the “political reform trio” led by me in the last term of Government was unable
to secure the selection of the Chief Executive by universal suffrage through
“One Person, One Vote”. The unlawful “Occupy Central” movement launched
by some people has led to social conflicts and seriously affected the economic
and social development of Hong Kong. As a responsible Chief Executive
returned by election, I fully understand the aspirations of the community, in
particular our young generation, for universal suffrage. Yet, we cannot ignore
the reality and rashly embark on political reform once again. During my term
of office, I will do my best to work towards creating a favourable social
atmosphere for taking forward political reform within the framework of the
“831 Decision” of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress.
Executive‑Legislature Relationship
25. The Basic Law stipulates the respective responsibilities of the executive
authorities and the legislature of the HKSAR. While the Government fully
respects the functions of the Legislative Council (LegCo) to exercise checks and
balances on the executive authorities, we hope that through co‑operation, we
can reach consensus on issues that are controversial and yet strategically
important for the long‑term development of Hong Kong. Before assuming
office, I had started communicating actively with LegCo Members from
different political parties and groups, and consulting them on how to make the
best use of the new resources for education. The additional recurrent funding
of $3.6 billion for quality education was approved smoothly by the LegCo
Finance Committee two weeks after it was proposed by the Government. This
demonstrates that good communication is the basis for co‑operation between
the executive authorities and the legislature. I am confident that with the
overall interests of Hong Kong as our common goal, we can discuss, decide and
proceed together.
26. In the past three months, I have demonstrated through action that
I attach great importance to improving the relationship between the executive
authorities and the legislature. Accepting the suggestion of LegCo Members,
I have reverted to the practice of delivering the Policy Address at the first
meeting of the legislative session. I also responded positively to the request of
the LegCo Committee on Rules of Procedure to increase the frequency of the
Chief Executive’s Question and Answer Sessions. I will continue to set an
example and lead my political team to build an interactive platform for
communication and co‑operation with the LegCo.
10
District Administration
27. On district administration, we will adopt a “bottom‑up” approach and
propose improvement measures after listening to the views of the District
Councils and local communities regarding their long‑standing concerns. In
this connection, the Government has already implemented a series of
improvement measures through co‑ordination across relevant departments
under the Steering Committee on District Administration. These include:
(i) increasing the cleaning frequency: cleaning hygiene blackspots in
all districts more frequently, and conducting large‑scale clean‑up
operations regularly at coastal areas and typhoon shelters;
(ii) stepping up law enforcement: stepping up inter‑departmental
collaboration and law enforcement effort with regard to
blackspots of littering, illegal dumping, illegal parking of bicycles
and shop‑front extensions in the districts;
(iii) using automation to enhance efficiency: exploring the
introduction of automated cleaning machines or technology for
trial use at suitable venues or after large‑scale events;
(iv) making good use of idle sites in various districts: opening up and
landscaping undeveloped government sites for leisure and
recreational purposes as far as possible in accordance with the
recommendations of the District Councils, or allocating such sites
for use by non‑governmental organisations or arts groups; and
(v) stepping up publicity and public education efforts: stepping up
collaboration with the District Councils and encouraging local
personalities to participate in public education and publicity
activities, to educate the public to keep our city clean and protect
the environment at source.
28. Good building management is also conducive to improving the living
environment, promoting community building and fostering social harmony.
To assist owners in proper building management and to address public
concerns, we will implement multi‑pronged initiatives, including the
submission of proposed amendments to the Building Management Ordinance
to the LegCo for deliberation; publishing new Codes of Practice to set out the
best practices of building management; and launching the Building
Management Dispute Resolution Service, to be steered by a retired judge, on a
pilot basis to provide objective opinions on dispute cases.
11
Integrity
29. Since its establishment in 1974, the Independent Commission Against
Corruption (ICAC) has profoundly transformed Hong Kong from a city
plagued with corruption to one of the least corrupt cities in the world.
Internationally acclaimed, our citizens and businesses maintain high ethical
standards and show zero tolerance towards graft. The achievements of the
ICAC owe much to its adoption of a three‑pronged approach, comprising law
enforcement, corruption prevention and community education, as well as the
unwavering dedication of its highly professional staff in fighting corruption on
all fronts. Today, the ICAC remains independent in its operation. It is fearless,
robust and effective in pursuing the corrupt, and continues to be held in high
regard by both the local and international communities. The Commissioner of
the ICAC will continue to call on major international ranking institutions to
enhance their understanding of Hong Kong’s probity situation. On the
enhancement of legislation, we will resolve as soon as possible those
constitutional and legal issues pertinent to the amendment of the Prevention of
Bribery Ordinance to extend the scope of sections 3 and 8 to cover the Chief
Executive.
Public Finance
30. Sound public finance and optimal use of public resources are key to
good governance. With years of practical experience in public finance, I fully
appreciate the Basic Law’s requirement of keeping the expenditure within the
limits of revenues and avoiding fiscal deficits as far as possible. But the fact is
that the HKSAR Government last went into deficit in 2003‑04. Taking into
account the investment return previously injected into the Housing Reserve, we
currently have a fiscal reserve in excess of $1,000 billion. We are well
positioned to use our accumulated fiscal surpluses, which are wealth derived
from the community, wisely to benefit the community. On the premise of
ensuring the health of our public finance, I will adopt forward‑looking and
strategic financial management principles in making investment for Hong
Kong and relieving our people’s burdens.
The Chief Executive’s Mission and Leadership
31. In the past three months, in my new capacity as Chief Executive, the
honour as well as the immense responsibility of the office are most deeply felt.
Some of the decisions cannot be delegated. Certain views must be stated in
unequivocal terms. And some of the tasks have to be taken up by myself.
What I find most encouraging and touching is the warm support I have 
12
received from numerous leaders in our community. Some of them have joined
the Executive Council and various statutory bodies or advisory bodies, some
have participated in outbound business delegations or summit meetings, and
some have spoken in support of Hong Kong through their liaison with
Mainland and overseas organisations. I will capitalise on this rich talent pool
during my tenure in working on Hong Kong’s future.
The Chief Executive’s Council of Advisers on Innovation and
Strategic Development
32. I will set up the Chief Executive’s Council of Advisers on Innovation
and Strategic Development to replace the existing Economic Development
Commission and the now defunct Commission on Strategic Development, both
chaired by the Chief Executive. The Council, comprising leaders from various
sectors, will contribute ideas on future innovation in Hong Kong and the
strategic positioning of Hong Kong in the future global economy, guide future
changes to maintain Hong Kong’s competitiveness in the global arena and
enhance Hong Kong’s alignment with the development of our country. The
new Policy Innovation and Co‑ordination Unit will provide secretarial support
for the Council and conduct evidence‑based policy research in the light of the
Council’s suggestions. This would strengthen the Government’s capability in
policy formulation to meet Hong Kong’s development needs.
Steering Committee on Innovation and Technology
33. I will personally chair an internal Steering Committee on Innovation
and Technology to take forward the development of innovation and technology
in Hong Kong, and to steer collaboration and participation across bureaux and
departments with effect from the most senior level. I will also ensure that the
resources requirement will be met in a timely manner.
Chief Executive Summits
34. While inviting the Chief Secretary for Administration and the
Financial Secretary respectively to lead other important policy areas, I will
chair the annual Chief Executive Summits to be apprised of the outcome of
efforts made in various policy areas and to listen to further views from
stakeholders. The subjects initially proposed for the summits include youth
development, quality education, poverty alleviation, and innovation and
technology. I will also attend the “Summit on the New Directions for
Taxation” to be held late this month to gauge the views from all sectors in
formulating forward‑looking tax policies and measures.
13
III. Diversified Economy
My Belief
35. For 23 consecutive years, Hong Kong has been ranked as the world’s
freest economy by the Heritage Foundation of the United States. Hong Kong
has also been crowned as the world’s most competitive economy for two years
in a row by the International Institute for Management Development based in
Lausanne, Switzerland. The Canadian think‑tank Fraser Institute recently
published its annual report on Economic Freedom of the World. Since the
publication of the report in 1996, Hong Kong has always been ranked the
world’s freest economy. In the World Economic Forum’s latest Global
Competitiveness Report, Hong Kong has leapt three places to reach the sixth
place worldwide. Such recognition does not come easily. We will continue to
respect the rules governing the economy and market operations, and promote
free trade. At the same time, we will leverage our unique advantages under
“One Country, Two Systems”. With a new style of governance of being
proactive, a strong sense of commitment embodied in the new roles of the
Government, as well as a new fiscal philosophy to manage our finances wisely,
we will inject new and continuous impetus to Hong Kong’s economy.
Hong Kong’s Current Economic Situation and
Outlook
36. Our economy has been performing very well this year, expanding by
4.0% in real terms year‑on‑year in the first two quarters. Entering into the
third quarter, our positive economic development has continued with export
growing notably and domestic demand remaining firm, displaying an
encouraging performance. The local labour market has continued to see full
employment, with the employed population increasing steadily and the
unemployment rate dropping to 3.1% in recent months. This is the lowest level
in almost two decades. Household income has generally recorded solid
increases, with the earnings of full‑time employees in the lowest decile group
increasing by 4.5% in real terms after discounting inflation. Inflation has
dropped for six consecutive years.
37. Looking ahead to the second half of the year, we believe that our
economy will continue with its consistently upward trend. This is partly
attributable to the modest growth of the global economy and the steady
performance and positive outlook of the Mainland economy, which is
particularly important for our export trade. In addition, sanguine local 
14
economic sentiment will bring momentum to our economy. Barring abrupt
negative shocks externally, our overall economic growth this year is expected
to go higher than 3.5%, the mid‑point in the earlier forecast range of 3‑4%, and
would fare better than the annual average of 2.9% over the past decade.
38. While upholding the free market principle, the Government has to
actively enhance its role in boosting our economic vibrancy through efforts in
various areas, including land supply, talent, government‑to‑government
business, policy directions, investment, business‑friendly environment and
taxation. In the face of keen global competition, the Government must step up
its policy effort in the areas of talent and innovation to ensure sustainable
economic development.
Land Supply for Economic Development
Industrial/Commercial Sites
39. To maintain Hong Kong’s competitiveness and seize new
opportunities, the Government will continue to increase the supply of various
types of land, including general industrial/commercial sites, sites for logistics
use, and sites for convention and exhibition facilities, etc., in order to meet the
needs arising from economic development. Under the 2017‑18 Land Sales
Programme, the Government has put up three sites, one each for commercial,
hotel and industrial uses for sale in the first three quarters. The Government
expects to put up a number of commercial sites, located at the Kai Tak
Development Area, above the terminus of the Hong Kong Section of the
Guangzhou‑Shenzhen‑Hong Kong Express Rail Link, at the New Central
Harbourfront, Caroline Hill Road, Queensway Plaza and Sai Yee Street, etc., for
sale starting from next year onwards. These sites will provide a total of about
1.1 million square metres of floor area.
Logistics Sites
40. In addition to a site of about 3.2 hectares for logistics use in Tuen Mun
Area 49, the Government will continue to identify suitable sites for such use at
different locations (including Hung Shui Kiu New Development Area, Yuen
Long South development, Tuen Mun Areas 40 and 46 and New Territories
North). We will also continue to support the Airport Authority Hong Kong
(AAHK) in its development of SKYCITY, a facility combining retail, dining and
entertainment purposes, to turn the Airport North Commercial District into a
unique tourist attraction.
15
Convention and Exhibition Sites
41. The convention and exhibition industry is crucial to Hong Kong as an
international centre for commerce and trade. By attracting world‑class and the
most prestigious international conventions and exhibitions to Hong Kong, we
have reinforced our position as an international hub. Regarding conventions,
apart from the annual Asian Financial Forum and the Business of Design
Week, we hosted the Belt and Road Summits on the Belt and Road Initiative of
our country in the past two years to promote this major national policy as well
as the opportunities for international business collaboration and to facilitate the
related business matching in Hong Kong. Regarding exhibitions, a number of
large‑scale international exhibitions are organised in Hong Kong every year.
Among them, over 10 are the largest Asian, or even global, procurement
platforms for the trades concerned, such as electronics, jewellery, gifts, clocks
and watches, lighting, and culture and arts.
42. To maintain and consolidate the international status of our convention
and exhibition industry, there is a pressing need for new venues. Otherwise,
Hong Kong will miss the opportunities to host some of the large‑scale
conventions and exhibitions that are either internationally important or newly
launched. The current‑term Government is determined to tackle this
long‑standing problem. After a detailed study, we consider that the priority is
to build a new convention and exhibition venue of international standard in the
proximity of the existing Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre
(HKCEC) in Wan Chai. The new venue must be connected to and integrated
with the existing HKCEC to maximise the benefits. Therefore, we have decided
that for the time being, we will give up the identified site at the Wan Chai
Sports Ground announced by the Government earlier. Instead, we will
demolish and redevelop the three government buildings next to the HKCEC in
Wan Chai North into a new wing that can be connected to and integrated with
the existing HKCEC. Based on an initial estimate, the project will add about
23 000 square metres of connected convention and exhibition facilities. Hotel
facilities, which complement the convention and exhibition activities, and
Grade A office space, which can help alleviate the market shortfall, can be built
on top of the new convention and exhibition venue.
43. The proposed new wing of the HKCEC will not be sufficient to make
up for the venue shortage. We will continue with the development of a new
convention centre above the MTR Exhibition Station of the Shatin to Central
Link to provide the market with an additional 15 000 square metres of
convention space. As a longer‑term plan, when the reprovisioning of the Wan
Chai Sports Ground is satisfactorily resolved, the site may be earmarked for the 
16
further development of convention and exhibition facilities so as to reinforce
and enhance the status of Wan Chai North as a convention and exhibition hub
in Asia. We will also continue to explore the feasibility of expanding other
existing convention facilities.
44. In redeveloping the site vacated by the government offices buildings in
Wan Chai North, we will take the opportunity to thoroughly examine the
traffic arrangements. To make full use of the new MTR Exhibition Station of
the Shatin to Central Link in Wan Chai North, we propose to upgrade and
enhance the footbridge network in Wan Chai North and its proximity to
connect the convention and exhibition facilities to the MTR Wan Chai Station,
Admiralty Station and the MTR Exhibition Station of the Shatin to Central
Link. This will improve the pedestrian walkway network in the area. We will
also capitalise on the completion of the Central‑Wan Chai Bypass to optimise
the traffic arrangements in the vicinity and enhance the efficiency of the road
network linking Wan Chai North.
Revitalisation of Industrial Buildings
45. The Government is exploring different approaches to facilitate the
transformation of industrial buildings and releasing land resources. Possible
options include reactivating the revitalisation scheme for industrial buildings
by offering incentives to encourage owners of old industrial buildings to
undertake redevelopment or wholesale conversion, and considering how
operating space can be provided legally and safely under the scheme for certain
industries with development potential, such as cultural, arts and creative
industries, and for appropriate community facilities. To address the issue of
fragmented ownership in certain old industrial buildings, the Government will
consider ways to facilitate the assembly of titles, including examining the
threshold of “compulsory sale” applicable to old industrial buildings. The
Government is also studying how to facilitate the conversion of the lower floors
of industrial buildings for non‑industrial purposes, subject to fire safety and
building safety requirements, and will review the definition and coverage of
“industrial” and “godown” uses in land leases.
Talent
46. The continuing development of Hong Kong’s economy requires a
supply of talent for different sectors. Nurturing local talent is thus the priority
task of the Government. In this connection, we will set up a Commission for
the Planning of Human Resources, to be chaired by the Chief Secretary for
Administration, for the training of talent for different industries and the
formulation of policy initiatives to attract talents from outside Hong Kong more 
17
proactively. In addition, the pooling of talents benefits the development of
various sectors. The Government will enhance Hong Kong’s training resources
and policy initiatives to fully realise our soft‑power and strengthen our
training capacity in such areas as aviation, maritime, railway, finance,
construction, city management, etc. This will not only provide suitable talent
for the high value‑added and diversified development of Hong Kong in the
long run, but also make contribution in training talents for our country as well
as the Belt and Road cities and neighbouring areas.
Government‑to‑Government Business
47. Through conducting more government‑to‑government dialogues and
establishing more bilateral and multilateral ties with the Mainland and
overseas countries, we will promote Hong Kong’s advantages and attract more
Mainland and international enterprises, investors and talent to Hong Kong.
48. On the enhancement of bilateral ties, the Government will actively seek
to sign free trade agreements (FTAs), investment promotion and protection
agreements (IPPAs) and comprehensive avoidance of double taxation
agreements (CDTA) with other economies, including those along the Belt and
Road to open up markets, and to further strengthen Hong Kong’s position as
an international trade, commercial and financial centre.
49. After years of negotiations, Hong Kong will sign an FTA and an IPPA
with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) in November this
year. This will help foster closer bilateral economic ties, boost the confidence of
investors and enhance investment flows, thereby benefiting our economy. The
Hong Kong and Macao Closer Economic Partnership Arrangement (HK‑Macao
CEPA) is expected to be signed within this year. We will sign an FTA with
Georgia upon the completion of all the necessary internal procedures by both
parties. We will continue to negotiate bilateral FTAs with Australia and the
Maldives. We will also sign IPPAs with Bahrain and Mexico respectively after
both parties have completed all the necessary internal procedures. In addition,
we are engaged in a strategic trade dialogue with Britain to discuss its
post‑Brexit trade relationship with Hong Kong. We will review our bilateral
and multilateral economic and trade relationships with our trading partners
with a view to creating the most favourable environment and maximising the
business opportunities for external trade and investment.
50. The Government has so far concluded CDTAs with 38 tax jurisdictions.
Following the signing of an agreement with Saudi Arabia this August, we will
continue to identify potential negotiation partners, especially countries along
the Belt and Road. We hope to further expand our CDTA network, bringing the
total number of such agreements to 50 over the next few years.
18
51. On multilateral relations, we will maintain our active participation in
the affairs of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and the Asia‑Pacific
Economic Co‑operation (APEC). The Secretary for Commerce and Economic
Development (SCED) will be one of the Vice Chairs of the WTO’s Eleventh
Ministerial Conference to be held in December this year.
52. We now have 12 Economic and Trade Offices (ETOs) in major
economies around the world. To further expand the network of our ETOs and
to strengthen our work on external promotion, in addition to the new ones
proposed earlier (such as those to be set up in India, Russia and the United
Arab Emirates), the Government is planning to set up an ETO in Thailand,
which will be our third ETO in ASEAN, after Singapore and Indonesia. This
plan takes into account the fact that ASEAN is currently Hong Kong’s second
largest merchandise trading partner and the fourth largest services trading
partner. It is also an economic region with significant development potential
under the Belt and Road Initiative. The addition of an ETO in Thailand will
make the ETO network in ASEAN on par with that in the European Union.
Enhanced Co‑operation with the Mainland
53. Regarding the Mainland, we have upgraded the network and functions
for our offices in the Mainland. At present, our five offices in the Mainland
cover 31 provinces, municipalities and autonomous regions, with each office
having at least two liaison units. In future, these offices and their 11 liaison
units will enhance government‑to‑government connection both at the central
and local levels, strengthen the promotion of Hong Kong in the Mainland and
establish platforms for direct communication between Hong Kong’s business
sector and relevant Mainland authorities. This will further enhance the close
relationship between Hong Kong and the Mainland, and support Hong Kong
people and businesses to fully grasp the development opportunities in the
Mainland.
54. In addition, the DoJ is actively liaising with the Mainland authorities
on proposals for facilitating the resolution of cross‑boundary civil and
commercial disputes through a clear and user‑friendly legal regime with the
aim to further safeguard the rights of the parties from the two places. In this
regard, the DoJ will explore with the Supreme People’s Court and relevant
authorities appropriate ways to expand the scope of the arrangements on
mutual legal assistance between the two places in civil and commercial
matters. Furthermore, the DoJ will soon renew the “Co‑operative Arrangement
on Legal Matters” with the Shenzhen Municipal People’s Government to
enhance legal collaboration and exchanges between Hong Kong and Shenzhen.
19
55. The DoJ is also stepping up its overseas promotion of Hong Kong’s
international legal and dispute resolution services through co‑operation with
international organisations such as the United Nations Commission on
International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) and participation in the work of the
“Friends of the Chair on Strengthening Economic and Legal Infrastructure”
under the Economic Committee of APEC.
Policy Directions
56. In the face of competition from other economies as well as the rise of
protectionism in recent years, Hong Kong is facing increasingly grave
challenges. We must develop a high value‑added and diversified economy.
This embraces the development of new economic sectors such as innovation
and technology and creative industries, and capitalising on the opportunities
arising from the national Belt and Road Initiative as well as the
Guangdong‑Hong Kong‑Macao Bay Area (Bay Area) development, in order to
generate new impetus for our future economic development.
Opportunities Arising from the Belt and Road Initiative
57. The Belt and Road Initiative is a new engine for Hong Kong’s economic
development. In the current‑term Government, the Commerce and Economic
Development Bureau (CEDB) has been tasked to co‑ordinate the work of the
HKSAR Government on the Belt and Road Initiative. The SCED is proactively
steering the next stage of work on the Belt and Road Initiative. To ensure that
the CEDB will be able to take forward the work on the Belt and Road Initiative
more effectively and on a sustained basis, we will provide additional resources
to reinforce the manpower for the Belt and Road Office. The SCED has also
revamped the Trade and Industry Advisory Board into a broader platform to
facilitate liaison with enterprises and various professions and to collect their
views more effectively.
58. To fully participate in and capitalise on the opportunities brought by
the Belt and Road Initiative, and to leverage our edge under the “what the
country needs, what Hong Kong is good at” policy, the HKSAR Government
will step up communication with the Central Authorities to gain a deeper
understanding of the policy directions and implementation of the Belt and
Road Initiative. We will also co‑operate with enterprises and chambers of
commerce to translate policies into business opportunities. We are in
discussion with the Central Authorities with the aim of entering into an
agreement of Hong Kong’s full participation in the Belt and Road Initiative
with the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) by the end of 
20
this year. The agreement will cover various areas such as finance,
infrastructure, economic and trade facilitation, people‑to‑people bonds, project
interfacing, dispute resolution as well as the Guangdong‑Hong Kong‑Macao
Bay Area development. Specific measures will be drawn up to lay down the
principles and provide a blueprint for mutual co‑operation. Among these
measures, we will explore the establishment of an information sharing
platform for Belt and Road projects so that enterprises will have a better grasp
of relevant information to facilitate more effective project interfacing and
enterprise collaboration. The HKSAR Government will also establish a joint
working mechanism with the NDRC for direct and regular dialogues, to
strengthen communication and co‑operation and to oversee the
implementation of the agreement.
59. The second Belt and Road Summit (the Summit), jointly organised by
the Government and the Hong Kong Trade Development Council (TDC), is a
significant initiative in driving the Belt and Road Initiative. The second
Summit held on 11 September this year gained strong support from the Central
Authorities and attracted the active participation of many countries and various
sectors in Hong Kong. Over 3 000 government representatives of different
countries and leaders of different sectors from more than 50 countries and
regions took part in the Summit. The business matching sessions, in particular,
received an overwhelming response from the business sector. As many as
170 investment projects in transport and logistics infrastructure, energy, natural
resources and public utilities, and urban development were featured through
project presentations and networking sessions, with more than
600 participants. In addition, one‑to‑one business matching meetings were
arranged for over 200 companies, including project owners, investors and
professional services providers. The Summit successfully achieved its objective
of “turning vision to action, fostering concrete co‑operation under the Belt and
Road Initiative”. Building on the success of the Summit this year, the HKSAR
Government plans to continue to work with the TDC and stage the event every
year, making it a key platform to promote and foster Hong Kong as an
international commerce and trading platform for the Belt and Road Initiative.
Development of the Guangdong‑Hong Kong‑Macao Bay Area
60. After the signing of the co‑operation framework agreement by the
governments of Guangdong, Hong Kong and Macao, and the NDRC, witnessed
by President Xi Jinping, on 1 July this year, we have basically completed the
drafting of the development plan for a city cluster in the Guangdong‑Hong
Kong‑Macao Bay Area (the Plan). Soon to be promulgated by the State Council,
the Plan will provide a blueprint for building a world‑class city cluster through 
21
complementary co‑operation among the three places. The HKSAR Government
will actively participate in taking forward the development of the Bay Area, so
as to create favourable conditions for diversifying our industries, in particular
for promoting innovation and technology development. Moreover, we will
seek further facilitation measures for Hong Kong people to study, work, and
start up and operate business, live and retire in the Bay Area and thereby
facilitating the flow of people, goods, capital and information between Hong
Kong and other cities in the Bay Area and making it a quality living circle for
Hong Kong people.
61. To more effectively take forward various tasks related to the
development of the Bay Area, the Steering Committee on Co‑operation with the
Mainland, chaired by the Chief Secretary for Administration, will be renamed
as the Steering Committee on Taking Forward Bay Area Development and
Mainland Co‑operation. This will enable us to capitalise on the unique
advantages of Hong Kong in the Bay Area and formulate concrete work plans
in a more focused manner. The Constitutional and Mainland Affairs Bureau
will set up a Guangdong‑Hong Kong‑Macao Bay Area Development Office,
which will be responsible for co‑ordination with the relevant central authorities,
the Guangdong Provincial Government, the Macao SAR Government, and the
relevant bureaux and departments of the HKSAR Government. The office will
proactively approach trade associations, professional bodies and relevant
stakeholders to co‑ordinate effort related to the implementation of the Plan.
Additional resources will be allocated to the office for undertaking research
and publicity on the Bay Area development to assist Hong Kong people and
enterprises to discover new opportunities.
Investment
62. The current‑term Government is committed to promoting two‑way
investments. Invest Hong Kong (InvestHK) under the CEDB will maintain
closer ties with the HKSAR’s offices overseas and in the Mainland to identify
targets and proactively attract enterprises, including start‑ups, to Hong Kong.
According to the latest annual survey jointly conducted by InvestHK and the
Census and Statistics Department, there are over 8 200 business operations in
Hong Kong with parent companies overseas and in the Mainland. Among
them, 1 413 have their regional headquarters in Hong Kong, representing an
increase of 2.5% over the same period last year. The Government also
encourages local enterprises to explore investment opportunities overseas and
in the Mainland. This will in turn add momentum to the development of
professional services in Hong Kong.
22
A Business‑friendly Environment
63. To create an environment for all businesses to thrive, the Government
must devote effort to business facilitation. Through the Business Facilitation
Advisory Committee, we will improve our regulatory regimes and provide an
effective platform for communication across departments and sectors so that
the industries can put forward their views on regulatory matters to the
Government.
64. Our business facilitation work has won recognition worldwide. In the
past ten years, Hong Kong has all along been ranked by the World Bank’s
Doing Business report among the top five easiest places to do business across
the globe. Our ranking last year further moved one notch up to the fourth
place. This achievement is made possible only by hard effort. Looking ahead,
we must enhance our business facilitation effort and remove red tape for
various industries so as to enhance Hong Kong’s competitiveness. We will also
step up our dialogue with the World Bank and share the results of our work in
this area with them so that Hong Kong will be able to maintain its position
among the world’s top ranking economies in the Doing Business report.
New Taxation Proposal
65. We must maintain a simple and low tax regime, which is one of the
important competitive advantages of Hong Kong. In the face of new dynamics
arising from economic restructuring and global competition, we should
strategically utilise our tax measures to enhance Hong Kong’s competitiveness
by promoting the development of our industries and economic diversification.
66. The Financial Services and the Treasury Bureau will soon implement
the two specific tax measures put forward in my Election Manifesto. On the
two‑tier profits tax system, the profits tax rate for the first $2 million of profits
of enterprises will be lowered to 8.25%, or half of the standard profits tax rate,
instead of 10% as proposed in my Election Manifesto. Profits above that
amount will continue to be subject to the standard tax rate of 16.5%. The tax
rate for the first tier, which is even lower than that proposed in my Manifesto,
will provide further tax relief to small and medium‑sized enterprises (SMEs).
To ensure that the tax benefits will target SMEs, we will introduce restrictions
such that each group of enterprises may only nominate one enterprise to
benefit from the lower tax rate. To encourage research and development (R&D)
investment by enterprises, the ITB will consult the industries on additional tax
deduction for R&D expenditure. It is proposed that the first $2 million eligible
R&D expenditure will enjoy a 300% tax deduction with the remainder at 200%. 
23
The implementation of the above two initiatives requires the formulation of the
operations details and the enactment of legislation. We will submit the draft
legislation as soon as possible, with a view to implementing the proposals in
2018.
67. The Government will maintain communication with stakeholders with
the aim to formulate forward‑looking tax policies and initiatives to promote the
economic development of Hong Kong.
68. The above initiatives of the Government apply to all trades and
industries. For individual industries, we need to draw up more concrete
policies and measures depending on how developed they are. I would like to
first talk about two emerging industries in respect of which we have a
competitive edge and much potential: innovation and technology and the
creative industries.
Innovation and Technology
69. Since the establishment of the ITB in November 2015, the Government
has been actively promoting scientific research and the development of
innovation and technology. Our efforts in these two years are beginning to see
results. Capitalising on our advantages of “One Country, Two Systems”, our
geographical location, business environment, legal system, intellectual
property, R&D capability, financial services, etc., and given the opportunities
brought by the National 13th Five‑Year Plan and the Guangdong‑Hong
Kong‑Macao Bay Area development, Hong Kong has huge potential to become
an international innovation and technology hub. Nevertheless, we must keep
reinforcing and upgrading our capability, provide a conducive eco‑system for
innovation and technology, drive entrepreneurship through R&D results, foster
economic development and improve people’s daily lives.
70. Innovation and technology is not a single industry, but a new model of
development. The development of innovation and technology can lead to new
industries and create wealth, provide more employment for young people and
improve people’s daily lives. To catch up in the innovation and technology
race, the Government will step up its efforts to develop innovation and
technology in eight major areas.
71. First, increase resources for R&D. We have set a goal to double the
Gross Domestic Expenditure on R&D as a percentage of the Gross Domestic
Product to about $45 billion a year (i.e. from 0.73% to 1.5%) by the end of the
current Government’s five‑year term of office. The Innovation and Technology
Fund has doubled its financial support for innovation and technology from 
24
$730 million in 2013‑14 to over $1.5 billion in this financial year. From 2013‑14 to
2016‑17, the research funding provided by the University Grants Committee
(UGC)/Research Grants Council (RGC) has increased by 18% from $4.46 billion
to $5.28 billion. We have set aside no less than $10 billion as funding for
university research, which will be disbursed upon the completion of the review
on research funding by the UGC task force led by Professor TSUI Lap‑chee.
But before that, the funding provided by the RGC need not be confined to the
investment return of the Research Endowment Fund. We can also draw down
part of the principal as appropriate. To give private companies an incentive to
increase investment in technological R&D, we will provide additional tax
deduction for expenditure incurred by enterprises on R&D. The first $2 million
eligible R&D expenditure will enjoy a 300% tax deduction and 200% for the
remainder. With this measure, we hope to reverse the ratio of public sector
versus private sector expenditure on R&D from government‑led to
public‑private participation, which will make R&D funding more sustainable.
72. Second, pool together technology talent. With its blend of Chinese and
Western cultures, top‑notch tertiary institutions and outstanding scientific
research achievements, Hong Kong is the prime location for establishing an
international hub of scientific research talent. To train and pool together more
technology talent and to encourage them to pursue a career in innovation and
scientific research, the ITB will launch a $500 million “Technology Talent
Scheme” in the coming year, one of the initiatives is to establish a “Postdoctoral
Hub” to provide funding support for enterprises to recruit postdoctoral talent
for scientific research and product development. With an injection of $3 billion
into the Research Endowment Fund, the Education Bureau (EDB) will provide
studentships for local students admitted to UGC‑funded research postgraduate
programmes to incentivise more local students to engage in research work,
thereby promoting the development of innovation and technology. In addition,
we will provide funding to subsidise local enterprises on a matching basis for
training their staff on advanced manufacturing technologies, especially those
related to Industry 4.0, with a view to driving “re‑industrialisation”. We will
also expand the current Internship Programme to benefit more enterprises and
Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) graduates.
73. The Government has been striving to attract top overseas scientific
research institutions to Hong Kong. Last year, the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology set up an innovation node and the Karolinska Institutet from
Sweden established a research centre in Hong Kong. The presence of these
renowned institutions bears testimony to the fertile ground in Hong Kong for
developing innovation and technology. In the past three months, several other
internationally renowned institutions approached me directly and expressed 
25
interest in setting up key collaborative technology platforms in Hong Kong.
Indeed, we have sufficient scientific research capabilities to attract
world‑acclaimed universities, R&D institutes as well as technology enterprises
to collaborate and carry out forward‑looking research projects that will benefit
the society. Such collaborative effort will not only create a pool of top talent
around the world in Hong Kong, but also raise the standard of our technology
talent.
74. Third, provide investment funding. The Innovation and Technology
Commission rolled out a $2 billion Innovation and Technology Venture Fund
Scheme last month to co‑invest, on a matching basis, with venture capital funds
in local technology start‑ups. Other public bodies under the Government, such
as Science Park and Cyberport, also have different funding schemes to support
start‑ups. I believe that, given time, local enterprises seeking outlets for capital
will be more than willing to invest in technology development.
75. Fourth, provide technological research infrastructure. We are now
working with the Shenzhen Municipal People’s Government to jointly develop
the Lok Ma Chau Loop into the “Hong Kong‑Shenzhen Innovation and
Technology Park”, with a view to providing the largest‑ever innovation and
technology park in Hong Kong. The development of the Guangdong‑Hong
Kong‑Macao Bay Area and collaboration between Hong Kong and Shenzhen
will connect the upstream, midstream and downstream sectors of innovation
and technology industries, thereby developing an international innovation and
technology hub in the Bay Area. In addition, the Data Technology Hub and the
Advanced Manufacturing Centre in the Tseung Kwan O Industrial Estate, as
well as the expansion of Science Park, will be completed from 2020 onwards to
provide the infrastructure critical for driving “re‑industrialisation”. The
“InnoCell”, a residential building for talent adjacent to Science Park to be
completed in 2020, is another key supporting facility. In support of innovation
and technology start‑ups, apart from our continuous support to the Shenzhen
Municipal People’s Government in respect of its youth entrepreneur hubs in
Qianhai and Nanshan, the Space Sharing Scheme for Youth is also in the
pipeline. In the first phase of the scheme, a floor area of some 60 000 square
feet will be made available for start‑ups and other uses at no more than
one‑third of the market rent.
76. Fifth, review existing legislation and regulations, so as to remove
outdated provisions that impede the development of innovation and
technology. With the rapid advancement in technology, new economic models
such as the sharing economy are becoming increasingly popular in the
Mainland and overseas cities in recent years, leading to the emergence of many 
26
new economic activities. I will ask the Policy Innovation and Co‑ordination
Unit to be established to work with all bureaux to proactively review the
policies and legislation within their policy purview to bring them up to date
and remove red tape in order to foster the development of a new economy.
77. Sixth, open up government data. In the digital era, we need to expedite
the opening up of government data for use as raw materials in technological
research, innovation and the development of smart city. At present, the
Government provides over 3 100 datasets and 1 000 application programming
interfaces for free use by the public. Government departments will proactively
open up datasets in various areas to bring convenience to the public and to
facilitate technological research as well as the development of various
industries. The Hospital Authority will also establish a Big Data Analytics
Platform to identify useful information that will support the formulation of
healthcare policies, facilitate biotechnological research, and improve clinical
and healthcare services. This will promote innovation in healthcare services.
78. Seventh, Government to lead changes to procurement arrangements.
We will explore the inclusion of innovation and technology as a tender
requirement and will not award contract only by reference to the lowest bid, so
as to encourage local technological innovation. The ITB will also make use of
its block vote of $500 million to promote the use of technology by government
departments to enhance service quality. Launched in mid‑2017, the scheme has
received very positive responses from departments. The ITB has just agreed to
provide $100 million to fund more than 20 applied technology projects or
studies proposed by departments. Some of these projects will commence in
this financial year.
79. Lastly, popular science education. Apart from disbursing one‑off
grants to public sector primary and secondary schools in the 2015/16 and
2016/17 school years respectively, the EDB has updated the curricula of the
Science, Technology and Mathematics Education Key Learning Areas, with a
view to enhancing the ability of students in the integration and application of
knowledge and skills as well as nurturing their creativity, collaboration and
problem‑solving capabilities. In addition, the EDB will soon complete the
drafting of a supplementary document on “Computational Thinking – Coding
Education” for use by schools. For the professional development of teachers,
starting from the current school year, the EDB will arrange a series of intensive
training programmes for the leadership tier and middle managers of all
primary and secondary schools to enhance their capacity in planning and
implementing school‑based activities related to STEM. The STEM Education
Centre, newly set up in the Arts and Technology Education Centre at Lok Fu, 
27
Kowloon, will commence operation shortly to provide training and relevant
teaching support to primary and secondary school teachers. To provide more
opportunities for students to apply what they have learnt and share their
learning with each other, we will collaborate with tertiary institutions and
other relevant organisations to arrange more large‑scale quality activities for
students, e.g. education fairs related to science and technology. The Leisure
and Cultural Services Department will also update the permanent exhibitions
of the Hong Kong Science Museum to further promote STEM education using
the museum’s facilities.
Smart City
80. Smart city development can improve people’s daily lives and make
Hong Kong a more liveable city. The Government has just completed the
consultation on the Smart City Blueprint, and the responses from various
sectors are very positive. We are studying the feedback received and will make
public the Smart City Blueprint for Hong Kong within this year, ahead of the
original schedule. Prior to this, we will invest $700 million to push ahead with
the following key infrastructure projects for smart city development:
(i) provide an “eID” for all Hong Kong residents so that everybody
can use a single digital identity and authentication to conduct
government and commercial transactions online. This will foster
the development of a new economic service model that place
emphasis on direct interface with residents and consumers. It will
also provide a key digital infrastructure for smart city
development;
(ii) launch a pilot Multi‑functional Smart Lampposts scheme at
selected urban locations to support the building of a smart city
with city‑wide coverage of data and network. The Smart
Lampposts will provide convenient data services and collect
various real‑time city data, enhance city and traffic management,
and complement the future infrastructure development for 5G
mobile communications services in Hong Kong; and
(iii) reform the development technology of e‑Government systems
and build a big data analytics platform to support the adoption of
cloud services and new information technology by government
departments, thus enhancing operation efficiency and cyber
security.
28
81. To become a smart city, we must strive to achieve universal broadband
coverage across the territory as far as possible. Currently, the household
broadband penetration rate in Hong Kong is over 90%, among the highest in
the world. Most people can now enjoy high‑speed quality broadband services.
However, for villages, remote locations in the New Territories and the outlying
islands, the progress of network coverage by telecommunications companies is
slow due to the high costs of network installation and a small base. In view of
this, I propose that the Government takes the lead to provide
telecommunications companies with financial incentives in the form of
subsidies to encourage the extension of fibre‑based network to villages in
remote locations. The plan will cover about 380 villages currently without
high‑speed broadband network coverage and is expected to benefit nearly
170 000 villagers. This initiative not only demonstrates the people‑oriented
philosophy of the current‑term Government, but also provides the
telecommunications infrastructure necessary for the conservation and
revitalisation of rural and remote areas in future.
82. “Smart Mobility” is an important element for Hong Kong’s
development into a smart city. Through the application of technology, Smart
Mobility aims to facilitate the public in planning their travel arrangements,
enable people to make the best use of public transport services and alleviate
road traffic congestion. The Government will continue to develop intelligent
transport systems and integrate various existing transport mobile applications
of the Transport Department into an “all‑in‑one” platform to facilitate one‑stop
search for walking, driving, public transport and real‑time traffic information
by the public. Starting from 2019‑20, we will also install a new generation of
on‑street parking meters which accept payment of parking fees through
multiple means, including remote payment through mobile applications. These
parking meters will also be equipped with sensors to detect whether a parking
space is occupied, and provide real‑time information to assist motorists in
finding vacant parking spaces. This will reduce the need for vehicles to
circulate on roads to look for parking spaces. Furthermore, the Transport
Department is studying the installation of in‑vehicle units so as to allow
motorists to receive timely traffic information, pay tunnel fees without
stopping the vehicles, etc. The Transport Department expects to complete the
study in mid‑2018 and will explore ways to promote the installation of such
devices as soon as practicable.
83. To press ahead with innovation and technology development at full
steam, I will personally lead a high‑level, inter‑departmental Steering
Committee on Innovation and Technology to examine and steer measures 
29
under the eight areas of innovation and technology development as well as
Smart City projects. The objective is to take forward innovation and
technology development in Hong Kong in an expeditious and efficient manner.
Creative Industries
84. Our creative industries have immense development potential. They
are not merely a cluster of emerging professions, mainly in the design, arts,
cultural and communications sectors that are popular among young people,
but are also a powerhouse that will drive the economy, add value and make
Hong Kong a more attractive international city.
85. From 2005 to 2015, the value added in nominal terms contributed by
creative industries increased at an average annual rate of 5.4%. The number of
employees and establishments in these industries also increased by around 15%
and 39% respectively. In 2015, the value added in nominal terms contributed by
creative industries exceeded $57 billion, accounting for 2.5% of our GDP. These
industries also employed over 135 000 persons.
86. Of the eight sectors that constitute the creative industries, the growth
in the design industry is very impressive. From 2005 to 2015, the growth in the
value added reached 314%, representing an average annual growth of 15%. In
monetary terms, the value added increased from $1 billion in 2005 to
$4.1 billion in 2015. The number of employees and establishments in the design
industry increased by 68.8% and 125% respectively in the same period.
87. With their international outlook and innovative thinking, Hong Kong’s
professional design talents are able to assist their clients in enhancing their
competitiveness, branding and adding value to their products and services. We
can make use of the Guangdong‑Hong Kong‑Macao Bay Area to proactively
promote the further development of our creative industries. For example, by
strengthening co‑operation in design, we can realise the concept of “Shenzhen
Going Global, Hong Kong Attracting Foreign Investments”. Another example
is to jointly promote the production of Cantonese films and television
programmes in Guangdong, Hong Kong and Macao by further opening up the
market and encouraging investment, promoting co‑operation and exchange
among talents, and fully capitalising on Hong Kong’s role as a talent hub in the
creative industries.
88. We can also further enhance our policies, improve services and
products through creativity and treat creativity as a “problem‑solving” tool in
public administration and business operation. The Government is pleased to
take the lead, and encourage enterprises and the community to place more 
30
emphasis on creating and design so as to shape Hong Kong as a creative city
that values design. In the coming year, the CEDB will in partnership with the
Civil Service Training and Development Institute include creativity and design
thinking as key components of training programmes for directorate officers,
and step up training on creativity and problem‑solving capability. Apart from
training, we put equal weight on practical application. In collaboration with
the EU, the CEDB will proactively work with key public service providers
within the Government to redesign their workflow and their communication
channels with the public through effective application of design thinking in a
bid to further enhance efficiency and meet the public’s needs.
89. The nurturing of creativity and design thinking should begin at an
early age. Also, education programmes on creativity should not be confined to
nurturing artists, designers or architects. Design thinking should become a
problem‑solving capability and a new way of thinking that promotes value
adding and advocates inter‑disciplinary collaboration. We need to place more
emphasis on the promotion of design and creativity both within and outside
our education system. As regards professional design education, there are now
no less than 11 publicly‑funded programmes relating to design in Hong Kong.
They range from advanced diploma programmes to postgraduate programmes
funded by the University Grants Committee. The Hong Kong Design Institute
and the Technological and Higher Education Institute of Hong Kong under the
Vocational Training Council provide 15 programmes, covering a wide range of
design subjects such as clothing design, interior design, fashion design,
furniture design, stage design and visual design. We must also promote design
and creativity training to other professions and apply them to the operation
and management of enterprises. Such training can even become a kind of
on‑the‑job administration education and post‑school training. We encourage
and support enhanced co‑operation with local and overseas organisations to
jointly take forward the development in this respect.
90. Looking forward, we will further the development of our creative
industries, in particular the design industry, by leveraging our existing
advantages and the provision of financial support. We suggest injecting
$1 billion into the CreateSmart Initiative to strengthen our support for the
development of the design industry and the creative industries, especially the
nurturing of young talent, and enhance the community’s awareness of creative
thinking and design capability.
91. In this regard, the Hong Kong Design Centre (HKDC) has always been
a close partner of the Government in promoting design and related creative
industries. Since the establishment of the HKDC in 2001, the Government has
provided $300 million in total to fund its operation, with the aim of nurturing 
31
design talent, as well as enhancing and promoting the image of Hong Kong’s
design industry in the region and around the world. Such efforts include the
hosting of the Business of Design Week, which has attained a very high
reputation. In recent years, the HKDC has been commissioned by the
Government to administer the Design Incubation Programme and the Fashion
Incubation Programme. The HKDC also runs the Hong Kong Young Design
Talent Award to nurture new blood for the local design sector. As design is
becoming highly valued, we see room for promoting design thinking among
people of different age groups through the HKDC. We plan to provide more
resources for the HKDC to implement a series of measures to reinforce Hong
Kong’s status as a city of design excellence in Asia.
92. There is much room for development by combining design and
industry. There are also opportunities at the district and retail levels. We will
actively look into ways for young designers to make full use of the traditional
base for apparel and fabrics in Sham Shui Po District to create new synergy.
This can drive the local economy and enrich the tourism resources of the
district. At the same time, this can foster the development of Hong Kong’s
fashion design industry.
93. Apart from co‑operation in innovation and technology, Hong Kong
and Shenzhen have enormous potential for collaboration in their design
industry. The construction of the Qianhai HK‑SZ Design Innovation Hub,
which commenced about a month ago, is an excellent example. We will liaise
more closely with other design cities in the Mainland and overseas, and
promote Hong Kong’s position as a creative hub, thereby opening up new
markets for Hong Kong.
94. As for film making, the Government has adopted a multi‑pronged
approach in promoting the development of the film industry. Initiatives
include encouraging local film production, nurturing talent, audience building
and establishing the Hong Kong film brand name both in the region and
overseas. Established in 1999, the Film Development Fund aims to provide
funding for various initiatives conducive to the development of the film
industry. Since 2007, the Government has injected $540 million into the Film
Development Fund and supported the production of a great number of films
through this Fund. Many of these films have attained encouraging
achievements, winning a total of over 110 local and international awards. In
the light of changes in the film market in the past decade, we will review the
operation of the Film Development Fund this year with a view to driving the
further development of the local film industry and nurturing more
professionals for film production or post‑production, so that the industry will
be better able to respond to market needs.
32
95. The publishing industry has a long and distinguished history in Hong
Kong. To enable Hong Kong publishers to tap into the Mainland market, the
Government will continue to explore feasible measures with the relevant
Mainland authorities. Meanwhile, the EDB is promoting a reading culture
which will be conducive to providing new impetus for our publishing industry.
96. Creative industries and intellectual property are inseparable. Our
intellectual property regime is the cornerstone for the long‑term development
of the creative industries. The Government will continue to strengthen the
regime, promote the development of Hong Kong as a regional intellectual
property trading centre and encourage commercialisation of intellectual
property so that the development of our creative industries can further
diversify.
Finance
97. To reinforce and enhance Hong Kong’s status as a global financial
centre, an offshore Renminbi (RMB) business hub and an international asset
management centre, we will capitalise on the opportunities arising from the
Belt and Road Initiative and the Bay Area and make the best use of Hong
Kong’s advantages to promote diversified development of our financial market.
Through continuous development of various existing financing channels in
Hong Kong and timely updating of the regulatory regime, we will develop
Hong Kong into a premier financing platform for new business enterprises in
the region so as to cater for the new economic environment. On this front, the
Financial Leaders Forum chaired by the Financial Secretary will put forward
strategic and forward‑looking proposals, which will be followed up by relevant
departments. The Government will allocate more resources to the Financial
Services Development Council to enhance its role in conducting strategic
research, formulating recommendations, promoting market development and
nurturing talent. Following consultation on the concept of introducing a new
board earlier, the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited is now
considering the views collected with a view to drawing up a more detailed
proposal for consultation with the market.
98. To demonstrate our support for sustainable development and
determination to combat climate change, and to promote the development of
green finance in Hong Kong, we will take the lead in arranging the issuance of
a green bond in the next financial year. Through this initiative, we seek to
encourage investors in the Mainland and along the Belt and Road as well as
international investors to arrange financing of their green projects through our
capital markets. With our encouragement, the AAHK has announced the 
33
issuance of a green bond in Hong Kong. We will continue to encourage
public sector bodies to follow suit and promote the establishment of
green bond certification schemes that meet with international standards by
local entities.
99. Together with the industry and the Mainland authorities, we will
continue to explore expansion of the channels for two‑way flow of cross‑border
RMB funds to reinforce and enhance the status of Hong Kong as a global hub
for offshore RMB business. In deepening mutual financial market access
between Hong Kong and the Mainland, we will explore the possibility of
including in the two‑way mutual access mechanism a wider range of
investment products, such as exchange‑traded funds, and extending the
Mainland‑Hong Kong Bond Connect to cover Southbound Trading.
100. Maintaining investor confidence in our financial markets is crucial to
the development of Hong Kong as an international financial centre. Building
on the existing foundation, we will strengthen the risk prevention and
resilience of our financial system and ensure that our financial market
mechanism is on par with international standards. We will establish a Policy
Holders’ Protection Scheme to provide policy holders with a safety net, so as to
boost public confidence in the insurance sector.
101. The Government and the Mandatory Provident Fund Schemes
Authority (MPFA) have commenced work on the eMPF, a centralised electronic
platform which will enhance the administrative efficiency of the Mandatory
Provident Fund schemes, thereby providing more room for fee reduction.
A working group comprising all the 14 trustees who are operating MPF
schemes has been formed to steer the development of the eMPF.
102. As an international financial centre with a highly‑developed
information and communication technology sector, Hong Kong is an ideal
place for the development of financial technologies (Fintech). We will continue
with our efforts to promote local Fintech development and encourage the
industry to experiment with innovative businesses. Following in the steps of
the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA), the Securities and Futures
Commission and the Insurance Authority just introduced the Supervisory
Sandbox in September to facilitate the launch of new Fintech products and
services in the market. The banking industry is exploring the establishment of
a Know‑your‑customer Utility (KYCU) to enhance the efficiency of banks in
conducting customer due diligence.
103. Regarding payment services, 13 stored value facilities (SVF) service
providers issued with licences last year are now actively promoting and
enhancing their payment products and services. To further promote market
34
development and facilitate person‑to‑person (P2P) payments, the HKMA will
launch the Faster Payment System (FPS) next year to allow banks and SVF
service providers to conduct real‑time settlement and transfer on a single
payment platform, thereby encouraging merchants to adopt more varied
innovative retail payment products for the benefit of consumers. In support of
the further development of the sector, the Government will actively promote
the use of new payment channels (such as smartphone e‑wallet) for various
government fees and charges in future. We will also continue to encourage
stakeholders to connect the financial institutions with various Fintech talents
so as to facilitate the training and exchange of talents.
Transportation Services and Logistics Industry
104. The Hong Kong International Airport (HKIA) is an important driving
force for local economic growth, consolidating Hong Kong’s status as an
international maritime and aviation centre and a hub for people flows and
cargo flows. We must capitalise on the unique advantages of Hong Kong in
terms of its geographical location and infrastructure, and continue to enhance
the HKIA’s hardware and software. Regarding hardware, the focus is on
enhancement of the passenger and cargo handling capacity. Measures include
actively assisting the AAHK in implementing the Three‑Runway System and
enhancing the airport infrastructure and intermodal facilities. As for software,
the Government has signed a Memorandum of Co‑operation with the Civil
Aviation Administration of China, and the Civil Aviation Authority of Macao
in July this year to further enhance the efficiency of air traffic management in
the Pearl River Delta region and carry out detailed technical analysis to
facilitate the optimisation and synergised development of the airspace in the
Bay Area. The Government will also develop high value‑added aviation
services including aircraft leasing and related business, and continue to expand
Hong Kong’s aviation network.
105. The booming growth of e‑commerce has generated an ever‑increasing
demand for cross‑border logistics and delivery services, in particular air mail
and transshipment services. At present, the Air Mail Centre located at the
HKIA has to process a vast volume of air mail every day. As it has been almost
20 years since it commenced operation, there is room for enhancement in its
processing capacity for air mail. In view of this, Hongkong Post is holding
discussions with the AAHK and other postal authorities on the expansion of
the Air Mail Centre at the HKIA in order to enhance its capacity and operating
efficiency to cater for the future growth in air mail volume.
35
106. To entrench Hong Kong’s position as a diversified international
maritime centre, the Hong Kong Maritime and Port Board established by the
Government is actively working with the industry to formulate a
comprehensive strategy to bolster and promote the development of Hong
Kong’s maritime industry and high value‑added maritime services (including
marine insurance, maritime legal and arbitration services, ship finance, ship
management and ship registration), and encourage overseas maritime
enterprises to set up presence in Hong Kong. Furthermore, the Transport and
Housing Bureau signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Maritime
London in September this year to further strengthen liaison and collaboration
between Hong Kong and the United Kingdom in promoting high value‑added
maritime services and training of maritime practitioners. The Government is
also actively implementing various trade facilitation measures for the shipping
industry, including strengthening the services of the Hong Kong Shipping
Register by providing timely services to overseas shipowners through the
Government’s Economic and Trade Offices overseas and in the Mainland,
thereby enabling their ships to set sail promptly upon their registration with
the Register.
Tourism
107. Over the years, tourism has remained one of the pillar industries of
Hong Kong. Visitor arrivals increased by 1.9% year‑on‑year in the first eight
months of this year. The current‑term Government has set a clear vision and
mission to press ahead with the development of Hong Kong into a world‑class
premier tourism destination. Apart from maintaining a steady growth in
visitor numbers, we are more concerned about attracting more high‑yield
overnight visitors to ensure the balanced, healthy and sustainable development
of the tourism industry.
108. In August this year, the HKSAR Government and the China National
Tourism Administration signed the “Agreement on Further Enhancement of
Tourism Co‑operation between Mainland and Hong Kong”. Build on the
existing foundation, the Agreement aims to further enhance the exchanges and
collaboration between the two places. Measures include launching of
promotional campaigns in the Belt and Road countries and Bay Area cities
jointly, developing “multi‑destination” tourism products to achieve a win‑win
outcome, promoting the development of Mainland‑Hong Kong cruise tourism
and enhancing co‑operation in tourism regulation, etc.
109. The Financial Secretary recently convened a high‑level tourism
co‑ordinating meeting in early October at which he directed bureaux and 
36
departments to drive the implementation of various tourism‑related measures
through closer co‑operation and co‑ordination.
110. Adopting the four development strategies set out below, the
current‑term Government will formulate and implement relevant measures and
initiatives in a holistic and orderly manner to boost the further development of
tourism:
(i) We will develop a diversified portfolio of visitor source markets
for Hong Kong, with an emphasis on attracting high‑yield
overnight visitors. Efforts will include assisting the industry in
seizing the tourism opportunities brought by the Bay Area
development, organising a “Belt and Road” tourism forum with
the participation of Belt and Road countries and the relevant
tourism sectors so as to help the local industry expand their
visitor source markets, and providing continuous support to the
Hong Kong Tourism Board (HKTB) in its promotion of Hong
Kong’s tourism features and image, including “multi‑destination”
products and itineraries, to source markets. For the medium and
long term, we will discuss with the China National Tourism
Administration and the tourism industry to continue to deepen
tourism collaboration between the Mainland and Hong Kong;
(ii) To develop and explore tourism products and projects with local
and international characteristics, including cultural tourism,
heritage tourism, green tourism and creative tourism to enrich
visitors’ experience. For example, in the short and medium term,
we will explore different green tourism attractions and collaborate
with local districts to promote the development of sustainable
green tourism, and examine ways to improve their supporting
transport arrangements. We will also explore the feasibility of
co‑collaborating with creative media schools to enable visitors to
experience, through the use of multimedia and creative
technology, the historical landscape and community culture of
places with a rich historical culture amidst the modern urban
setting of these places today. This would enrich our cultural and
heritage tourism products. In addition, we will consolidate and
enhance Hong Kong’s status as a travel destination for meetings,
incentive travels, conventions and exhibitions (MICE) tourism and
a regional cruise hub. We will also strive to attract different kinds
of new and mega events to Hong Kong;
37
(iii) To promote smart tourism. Short‑ and medium‑term measures
include improving Wi‑Fi facilities in tourist hotspots, exploring
ways to use smart technology to provide travel facilitation
services for tourists at suitable attractions and border control
points, such as sending messages to inbound tourists’ mobile
phones to provide them with basic and useful tourist information
and public transport information of different attractions for
itinerary planning. We will also encourage the industry to make
good use of innovative technology to enhance their
competitiveness; and
(iv) To upgrade the service quality of our tourism industry and seek
the LegCo’s early approval of the Travel Industry Bill to safeguard
the rights of tourists. We will also promote good business
practices in the industry to maintaining Hong Kong’s image as a
tourist destination.
Construction and Related Professional Services
Sectors
111. For the Hong Kong construction sector, the Belt and Road Initiative has
brought visions while the Guangdong‑Hong Kong‑Macao Bay Area initiative
has generated concrete opportunities and made it easier to achieve results.
112. The Mainland and Hong Kong signed an Agreement on Economic and
Technical Co‑operation under the Closer Economic Partnership Agreement
(CEPA) on 28 June 2017, which expressly supports Hong Kong’s participation in
the development of pilot Free Trade Zones. The Government will capitalise on
the new opportunities and continue to assist the construction and related
professional services sectors in their business development in the Mainland.
The Government will also deepen the co‑operation with Qianhai, Hengqin and
Nansha in accordance with the Agreement signed in June 2017. We will
continue to discuss with the Mainland various issues such as mutual
recognition of professional qualifications, rationalisation of the work of
“professionals” and “practitioners”, and promote the “Hong Kong management
model” already adopted in Qianhai to other Free Trade Zones.
113. The construction industry has been facing the challenges of high
construction costs and labour shortage in recent years. Hence, the Government
is proactively promoting the adoption of technology and innovative
construction methods to improve productivity and cost‑effectiveness. For
instance, the Government is assisting the industry in establishing large‑scale 
38
and highly automated steel reinforcing bar prefabrication plants for the
production of prefabricated steel reinforcement components for use in
construction projects. We will also adopt Building Information Modelling
technology in the design and construction of major government capital works
projects that are scheduled to start in 2018, and promote the use of this
technology in private construction projects. Besides, the new Construction
Innovation and Technology Application Centre of the Construction Industry
Council will be in operation by the end of this year to provide the latest
information on local and overseas construction technologies and to support
their adoption by small and medium enterprises.
Legal Services
114. The DoJ will implement various initiatives to consolidate Hong Kong’s
position as a centre for international legal and dispute resolution services in the
Asia‑Pacific region. These initiatives include promoting such services of Hong
Kong in the Mainland and overseas in collaboration with the relevant sectors
and making extra efforts to promote further co‑operation among relevant
sectors in Hong Kong, the Mainland and overseas, and providing professional
services to Mainland enterprises “going global” as well as those enterprises
investing in the Mainland.
115. One of the DoJ’s priorities is to step up efforts in proactively promoting
Hong Kong as an international legal and dispute resolution services centre for
the “Belt and Road” Initiative and the Bay Area, and encourage the legal sectors
of Hong Kong and the Bay Area to enhance their level of co‑operation. This
includes exploring the setting up of a Bay Area legal co‑operation platform for
the legal sectors of the three places to effect mutual notification, exchange
information, provide training and develop a talent pool.
116. To attract more international legal services and dispute resolution
institutions to set up branches or offices in Hong Kong, the Government is
rolling out the Legal Hub programme. Works are being taken forward to
renovate the West Wing of the former Central Government Offices and the
former French Mission Building. The programme will start providing office
space for international and local law‑related organisations around early 2019.
Broadcasting
117. The blossoming of Over‑the‑top television services and various forms
of online infotainment over the Internet and mobile platforms in recent years
has completely changed the business environment of Hong Kong’s 
39
broadcasting industry. With the emergence of new channels providing
education, entertainment and information to the public and the popularity of
online media platforms, the existing disparities in the regulatory regimes for
the broadcast contents of traditional media and the Internet platforms have
become obvious.
118. Indeed, traditional media have great influence as they can reach all
households directly and all household members, regardless of age, easily.
Some therefore opined that free television services should be kept under strict
control. Such conventional view is understandable, but the fact is technological
advancement has brought significant changes to people’s viewing habits. In
addition to this, the imbalanced regulatory regimes and tough competition
from the Internet platforms have made it very difficult for traditional media to
run their business.
119. To provide a balanced competitive environment for the broadcasting
market, and to leave more room for innovation and investment in order that the
development of local free television services can sustain, the Government is
now reviewing the broadcasting‑related ordinances with the aim of relaxing
obsolete statutory requirements and rationalising the regulatory regimes. We
will listen carefully and evaluate the responses from different sectors of the
community before making a decision. We undertake to make our best
endeavour to gauge public opinions and maintain close communication with
the industry in the process. In this regard, we expect to conduct public
consultation on the relaxation of the regulatory regimes in early 2018.
Agriculture and Fisheries Industry
120. The Government will continue to implement the measures under the
New Agriculture Policy, which include preparing for the establishment of an
Agricultural Park and commencing the consultancy study on designating
Agricultural Priority Areas. The latter aims to assist in formulating policies
and measures to promote the rehabilitation of fallow agricultural land and curb
the damage to agricultural land or alteration of agricultural land to
incompatible use. We will also facilitate operations in industrial buildings/
zones that employ hydroponics and other agro‑technology. With various
measures complementing each other, we strive to achieve the long‑term and
sustainable development of local agriculture. We will also expand the existing
fish culture zones, improve the fish culture environment and promote the
development of marine fish culture.
40
IV. Nurturing Talent
My Belief
121. Talent is the most important element in Hong Kong’s continued
development, and education is the key to nurturing talent. Government
expenditure on education is therefore the most meaningful investment for our
future development. The sound education infrastructure, renowned
universities and outstanding research personnel in Hong Kong help not only to
cultivate our future generations, but also to train talents for the Mainland and
neighbouring regions. Given the benefits that a wider pool of talent can bring
to our economic and social development, the Government should assume a
more active role in establishing our position as a talent hub.
Vision on Education
122. My vision for education is to nurture the future generations into
quality citizens who are socially responsible and equipped with a sense of our
national identity, a love for Hong Kong and an international perspective. We
should create a stable, caring, inspiring and satisfying teaching and learning
environment for students, teachers, parents and principals.
New Education Resources
123. Education is founded on dedication and commitment. Money alone
does not guarantee quality education. Yet, we cannot deny that given the
fluctuations in the student population, coupled with the government funding
model and various other reasons, some problems faced by the education sector
have to be addressed urgently with additional resources. Thus, I proposed in
my Election Manifesto an immediate increase of recurrent education
expenditure by $5 billion a year. The $3.6 billion first‑phase measures, which
reflected the consensus I reached with the education sector through
discussions when I was Chief Executive‑elect, were announced in the first
week after my assumption of office. Following approval by the LegCo Finance
Committee, these measures, covering the whole spectrum of the education
system from kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, integrated
education, special education to post‑secondary education, are being launched
progressively starting from September this year. As to how the remaining
$1.4 billion recurrent funding should be put to good use, the Government will
examine the relevant issues and continue to discuss with the education sector.
We will also provide additional resources where necessary.
41
Further Review on Eight Key Areas of Education
124. After listening to the views of stakeholders in the education sector,
I pointed out at my Question and Answer Session at the LegCo on 5 July
this year that the Government need to carry out in‑depth reviews on eight
key areas of education, including professional development of teachers,
curriculum arrangement, assessment system, vocational and professional
education and training (VPET), self‑financing post‑secondary education,
school‑base management, parent education and University Grants
Committee (UGC)’s funding on research and student hostels. The EDB will
set up task forces this year to take forward the reviews on these various
areas. Under the principles of “Led by Professionals” and “Listening to
Views Directly”, we will invite education experts, including professionals
with good knowledge of the situation of frontline teachers and student
learning, to participate in the work of the task forces. We have invited the
UGC to set up a task force, to be chaired by Professor TSUI Lap‑chee, to
review the existing research support strategy, the level of research funding
and the funding allocation mechanism for the higher education sector.
Regarding the role of self‑financing post‑secondary institutions and the way
forward for sub‑degree programmes, we will establish another task force, to
be chaired by Professor Anthony CHEUNG Bing‑leung, to review the issues
and make recommendations to the Government.
125. VPET is another area on which the Government will conduct
in‑depth review. The Government has all along stressed the importance of
VPET for the sustainable social and economic development of Hong Kong.
We have been actively implementing the recommendations made by the
Task Force on Promotion of Vocational Education in 2015, including the
rebranding of vocational education as VPET, the launch of promotion and
publicity activities, and the provision of grant subsidies to secondary
schools to cover Applied Learning course fees. Nevertheless, stakeholders
in general still consider VPET inferior to traditional academic education.
This bias is not conducive to the development of VPET and the relevant
industries. We will strengthen our promotion efforts by widening our use
of social media and online platforms to promote VPET to youngsters and
parents. The EDB will develop and maintain a VPET portal as a one‑stop
platform that provides information on VPET and related industries. The
EDB will also assist education and training institutions, employers and
trade associations in organising seminars and visits for senior secondary
students and parents.
42
Kindergarten Education
126. For kindergartens, the new free quality kindergarten education policy
has been implemented starting from this school year. The Government has
undertaken to review the salary arrangements for kindergarten teachers with
the aim of assessing the feasibility of introducing a salary scale for them. We
will use the data of the three school years from 2017/18 to 2019/20 as a basis to
assess the implications of a salary scale on the stability of the teaching force,
the sustainability of quality services as well as the flexibility and diversity of
the kindergarten sector. The EDB will further consult the kindergarten sector
and stakeholders and chart the way forward.
Post‑secondary Education
127. Universities in Hong Kong have made remarkable achievements in the
academic domain and are highly reputable around the world. Our universities
also carry the mission of grooming high‑calibre talent for Hong Kong. The
Government will provide further support to the researchers and students of
local universities in a more proactive manner, and enhance Hong Kong’s
position as a regional education hub. We also need a wider research talent pool
to drive the development of an innovation and technology‑based economy. We
will inject $3 billion into the Research Endowment Fund to provide
studentships for local students admitted to UGC‑funded research postgraduate
programmes, thereby incentivising more local students to engage in research
work in support of the development of innovation and technology.
128. For years, the Government has not been able to provide sufficient
hostel facilities to allow all local undergraduate students enrolled in
UGC‑funded universities to experience hostel life while in university. This also
reduces the incentive for non‑local students to study in Hong Kong, and
impedes the achievement of the policy objective of creating more
internationalised campuses. If we continued with the arrangement whereby
every university hostel project has to compete for resources internally and then
make a funding submission to the Public Works Sub‑committee and the FC of
the LegCo, the shortfall in university hostels would unlikely be eased in the
short term. In view of this, the Government will adopt a new approach by
setting up a $12 billion Hostel Development Fund to provide unit cost subsidy
for the construction of university hostels so as to increase hostel facilities at a
faster pace. We will submit a detailed proposal on the Hostel Development
Fund to the LegCo.
43
Children with Special Educational Needs
129. There is a dire need for children in pre‑primary education who have
special needs, such as those suffering from autism, hyperactivity disorder,
language disorder or dyslexia, to be provided with pre‑school rehabilitation
services as early as possible. In late 2015, the Government launched the Pilot
Scheme on On‑site Pre‑school Rehabilitation Services, under which
multi‑disciplinary teams visit schools to provide services to children with
special needs. These teams comprise occupational therapists, physiotherapists,
speech therapists, psychologists, social workers and special child care workers.
With the pilot scheme delivering notable results, the Government has decided
to regularise the pilot scheme, upon its completion, from the 2018/19 school
year. The Government will earmark $460 million a year in recurrent
expenditure for the programme and double the service places from about 3 000
to 7 000 in two years, with a view to achieving the policy objective of
“zero‑waiting time” for pre‑school rehabilitation services. In addition, the
Social Welfare Department (SWD) is working with the EDB on ways to enhance
support for children with special needs so that they will be provided with
appropriate services when they proceed to primary education. Starting from
October 2018, the SWD will regularise another pilot scheme which supports
youths with autism having high average intelligence and their carers. The
programme aims to enhance the living, social and employable skills of these
youths; provide their parents/carers with support services; and render advisory
services and professional training to relevant subvented rehabilitation service
units and frontline staff.
Enhancing Teaching Facilities in Primary and
Secondary Schools
130. The Government has been implementing various measures to improve
the teaching and learning environment as well as the facilities in schools
according to their needs. As air‑conditioning facilities can produce a more
comfortable teaching and learning environment in hot weather, the
Government will provide air‑conditioning systems for standard teaching
facilities (including classrooms and special rooms), student activity centres and
assembly halls in all public sector schools. Starting from the 2018/19 school
year, a recurrent Air‑conditioning Grant will be provided for schools to cover
the related daily expenses, including electricity charges and routine
maintenance costs. The Government will also arrange for the installation of
air‑conditioning systems for the facilities concerned as necessary in phases,
taking into account the actual situation of individual schools. Schools under 
44
the Direct Subsidy Scheme will also benefit from the new initiative, and the
amount of subsidy they receive will be adjusted accordingly.
Qualifications Framework
131. The Qualifications Framework (QF) has been implemented for nine
years. At present, about 8 000 QF‑recognised academic and vocational
qualifications are listed in the Qualifications Register. The EDB has also
conducted comparability studies of QFs with the relevant authorities in the
European Union, New Zealand, Scotland and Ireland. Such international
co‑operation will not only enhance the international image and recognition of
the Hong Kong QF, but also promote the mobility of learners with recognised
qualifications. We need to further strengthen and drive the development of QF,
enhance recognition of qualifications for different industries and provide
youngsters with quality‑assured pathways for further studies and career
development. The Government will inject $1.2 billion into the QF Fund for the
continued implementation of various initiatives.
Understanding Chinese History and Culture, and
Developments of Our Country
132. It is the intrinsic duty of school education to help students to
understand the development of the history, culture, economy, technology,
political system and law of their country and to cultivate in them a sense of
their national identity. The EDB will include Chinese history as an
independent compulsory subject for the junior secondary level in the 2018/19
school year. On the basis of the existing curriculum, the EDB will continue to
enrich curricular contents to promote students’ understanding of Chinese
history and culture. We are conducting a second stage consultation on the
revisions to the curricular content with the education sector. The EDB will
continue to adopt diversified strategies to enable teachers and students to gain
an all‑round understanding of our country and to appreciate and inherit the
splendid Chinese culture. These strategies include, strengthening Basic Law
education, organising more professional development programmes for
principals and teachers, developing teaching and learning resources, enriching
Mainland exchange programmes and learning activities for teachers and
students, and encouraging sister schools to enhance exchanges and
co‑operation on an on‑going basis. Having regard to the development
strategies of our country, the EDB will enhance the content of Mainland
exchange programmes to enable more teachers and students to understand the
opportunities brought by these development strategies and to widen their
horizons through visiting the Belt and Road provinces and cities, the 
45
Guangdong‑Hong Kong‑Macao Bay Area and enterprises in the innovation and
technology sector. We expect that through the learning of Chinese history and
meaningful activities, students will develop positive values and attitudes,
become knowledgeable and responsible citizens with a sense of our national
identity, and contribute to our country and our society.
Lifelong Learning
133. The Government will inject an additional $1.5 billion into the
Continuing Education Fund and improve its operation by expanding the
range of the courses covered, stepping up quality assurance for the curriculum
and enhancing protection for applicants. We estimate that an additional
150 000 citizens will be able to receive the subsidy and the Fund’s operation
will be extended to 2024.
Human Resources Planning
134. The Commission for the Planning of Human Resources, to be chaired
by the Chief Secretary for Administration, will commence operation early next
year. The Commission will consolidate the resources and efforts of the
Government and various sectors (such as the business, education and
professional sectors), and collectively formulate, examine, co‑ordinate and take
forward policies on human resources in a holistic manner, through this
initiative, we aim to ensure that our human resources will cater for the short‑,
medium‑, and long‑term development needs of Hong Kong and keep up with
our country’s latest developments as well as the evolving trends in the global
market. This will enable our citizens to seize the manifold and enormous
opportunities ahead for upward mobility. The Government will also draw up a
talent list for attracting professionals to Hong Kong in a more effective manner
to support our development as a high value‑added and diversified economy.
Importation of Labour
135. The unemployment rate in Hong Kong has remained low in recent
years and we basically achieve full employment. Individual sectors,
particularly the elderly care service sector, have persistently suffered from
labour shortage and recruitment difficulty. With an ageing population and a
declining birth rate, the overall labour force in Hong Kong is expected to
continue to drop after reaching the peak in 2019 to 2022. An ageing population
will significantly increase the demand for in‑patient services and
ageing‑in‑place carers. Moreover, large‑scale infrastructural projects such as
the Three‑Runway System and new railway projects, the ten‑year hospital 
46
development plan and the public housing development plan will create heavy
pressure on the labour supply for the construction sector. If the formidable
challenge of an inadequate workforce is not dealt with properly, Hong Kong’s
economic competitiveness and its sustainable social development will be
seriously undermined. Therefore, relevant policy bureaux and departments
will discuss with relevant industries ways to enhance training and attract new
recruits, especially young people. On the premise that local workers’ priority
for employment will be safeguarded, we will also explore with stakeholders the
possibility of increasing imported labour on an appropriate and limited scale.
For example, consideration may be given to allowing subsidised elderly service
and rehabilitation service units more flexibility in importing carers.
Women Workforce
136. Women are the main carers in Hong Kong families. To protect the
interests and well‑being of women and unleash their working potential, the
Government will make efforts to strengthen the support for families on various
fronts, including community and home care support services for the elderly,
persons with disabilities and children. With regard to child care services, the
Government will provide a total of about 300 additional places in aided
stand‑alone child care centres in the North District, Kwun Tong, Kwai Tsing
and Sha Tin starting from 2018‑19. Moreover, we have commissioned the
University of Hong Kong to conduct a study and make recommendations on
the long‑term development of child care services. The study is expected to be
completed by the first quarter of next year.
137. Meanwhile, in early October this year, the Government relaxed the
income limit for low‑income families under the Fee Waiving Subsidy Scheme
for After School Care Programme through the Community Care Fund, and
provided 2 000 additional fee‑waiving and fee‑reduction places. In 2018‑19, we
will inject $400 million into the Partnership Fund for the Disadvantaged. Of
this sum, $200 million will be mainly for implementing after‑school learning
and support programmes and about 130 000 grassroots children are expected
to benefit, thereby alleviating the pressure on working women in looking after
their children.
Talent Hub
138. With the rapid development of our country and in support of the Belt
and Road Initiative and the Guangdong‑Hong Kong‑Macao Bay Area
development, the demand for talent in such fields as financial investment, air
and maritime transport and logistics, infrastructure, professional services, 
47
trade, legal and dispute resolution services has surged significantly. The
Government is committed to strengthening Hong Kong’s position as a talent
hub, nurturing talent for the local community and neighbouring places.
139. In recent years, we have established the Hong Kong International
Aviation Academy and the MTR Academy to train personnel in air transport
and railway operation and management for Hong Kong, the Mainland and
other places. To nurture more high‑calibre and professional construction
practitioners, the Construction Industry Council also plans to establish the
Hong Kong Institute of Construction in the first half of 2018. The Fire and
Ambulance Services Academy was established in early 2016 to provide training
service for the Hong Kong Fire Services Department as well as other public and
private organisations. It aspires to become a leading training centre in the
region for fire and ambulance services. Hong Kong should fully realise its
soft‑power in grooming talent. This will not only boost the recognition and
influence of Hong Kong professionals in the Mainland and the region, but also
open up development and mobility opportunities for our professionals.
48
V. Improving People’s Livelihood
My Belief
140. Housing, healthcare, welfare services and other livelihood issues are
closely related to the daily lives of our people. They are the pillars of a caring
and inclusive society. For Hong Kong people to call this place their home, the
Government must ensure the provision of safe and proper accommodation,
trustworthy healthcare services and reliable social support. Hong Kong people
are by nature kind and willing to help others. The Government should further
engage in tripartite co‑operation with the community and the business sector
to make Hong Kong an inclusive society where people of different races,
professions, ages and physical abilities live together in peace and harmony.
Whether in poverty alleviation, care for the elderly or support for the
disadvantaged, the Government should adhere to the following principles in
formulating policies: pro‑child, pro‑family, pro‑work and pro‑user. On the
provision of social services, we should promote cross‑sector and
cross‑profession collaboration as well as public‑private partnership to make
better use of our resources and provide more comprehensive care for the needy
in society. I must point out, however, that as public resources are not without
limits, the policies and measures for improving people’s livelihood are not
merely a matter of supply and demand. They also involve the issue of resource
allocation, which the community cannot shy away from.
Housing
Present Situation
141. Among all livelihood issues, the housing problem is the most
challenging, formidable and complex. This is also the very issue that our
people most earnestly look to the current‑term Government to resolve with
innovative solutions in a resolute manner. The current shortage in housing
supply and surging property prices have resulted from both external and
internal factors. The current‑term Government is determined to rectify the
situation with the greatest effort.
Land Supply
142. Whether it is about solving people’s home ownership problems or
improving their living conditions, we must increase land supply. Over the
years, the Government has proposed many strategies for increasing land
supply, including reclamation outside the Victoria Harbour, reviewing land
uses, increasing the development intensity of sites, developing rock cavern 
49
space, speeding up urban renewal, developing the Lantau Island, etc. The
departments and organisations concerned are also undertaking studies on the
utilisation of land on the periphery of country parks and the use of brownfield
sites in the New Territories. Many proposals on land supply have also been put
forward in the community. Hence, it appears that what is lacking is not ideas
on how to increase land supply but a broad consensus on the pros and cons,
trade‑offs and priorities of different options. However, if we continued to
argue repeatedly and stayed indecisive, coupled with the long lead time for
land production, the tight land supply in Hong Kong would only get worse,
making it even more difficult for our people to realise their aspirations for
home ownership.
143. Established in September this year, the Task Force on Land Supply
(Task Force) will lead the community to examine the pros and cons of different
land supply options in a thorough and macro manner, with a view to achieving
the broadest consensus in the community. With an important mission to
achieve within a limited time frame, the Task Force plans to launch a public
engagement exercise in the first half of 2018. We appeal to all sectors of the
community to consider the difficult questions of land supply in an inclusive,
open and rational manner. We also look to the Task Force to draw up a
comprehensive package of proposals and a visionary land supply strategy.
Housing Policy
144. My housing policy comprises the following four elements:
(i) housing is not a simple commodity. Our community has a
rightful expectation towards the Government to provide adequate
housing. This is also fundamental to social harmony and
stability. Therefore, while maintaining respect of a free market
economy, the Government has an indispensable role to play in
this area;
(ii) we will focus on home‑ownership to enable our people to live
happily in Hong Kong and call it their home. The Government
will strive to build a housing ladder to rekindle the hopes of
families in different income brackets to become home‑owners;
(iii) focusing on supply and based on the Long Term Housing
Strategy, we will step up our effort in increasing the supply of
housing units; and
(iv) with insufficient land and when new supply is not yet available,
we will strive to optimise the existing housing resources to meet 
50
the housing needs of families that have long been on the waiting
list for public rental housing (PRH) and to help residents in poor
living conditions.
Public Rental Housing and Green Form Subsidised Home
Ownership Scheme
145. PRH is the first rung on the housing ladder. At present, there are about
756 000 households living in PRH, among which 19% are elderly persons and
16% are receiving the Comprehensive Social Security Assistance (CSSA). PRH
is a long‑established safety net for the grassroots and low‑income families. The
Government will strive to shorten the waiting time for PRH while stepping up
our effort to help those relatively better‑off PRH tenants to move up the
housing ladder and vacate their units for allocation to the needy.
146. One approach is to substantially increase the supply of units under the
Green Form Subsidised Home Ownership Scheme (GSH), which specifically
caters for PRH tenants. The Hong Kong Housing Authority (HKHA) launched
the GSH Pilot Scheme in 2016 and selected a PRH project in San Po Kong to
provide 857 units for sale at affordable prices to enable Green Form Applicants
to become home‑owners. The project was nearly 18 times over‑subscribed and
all units were sold. PRH units in different districts are in turn vacated for
allocation to those on the waiting list.
147. From the perspectives of housing policy, utilisation and allocation of
the HKHA’s resources, and public aspirations for home ownership, GSH has its
merits and no shortcomings. In fact, apart from assisting PRH tenants to
become home‑owners, PRH applicants who have passed the detailed eligibility
vetting are also eligible for GSH and can thus more quickly fulfil their
aspirations for home ownership. In view of this, I consider that our future
public housing developments should include more GSH units instead of PRH
units. I have requested the HKHA to complete the review on GSH as soon as
possible, with a view to regularising the Scheme and offering more such flats
for sale. After a preliminary technical assessment, the Housing Department
(HD) considers that some 4 000 new PRH units in Fo Tan, Sha Tin can be
converted into GSH units for sale in late 2018.
Resale of Home Ownership Scheme Flats and Subsidised Flats
148. Newly‑constructed Home Ownership Scheme (HOS) flats in the
housing ladder have all along been providing middle‑income White Form
applicants with the opportunities to own subsidised flats. The Government
will continue to increase HOS supply. In the past, HOS flats with premium
unpaid used to be available for sale on the secondary market only to Green 
51
Form applicants. The HKHA launched two rounds of the Interim Scheme of
Extending the HOS Secondary Market to White Form Buyers (Interim Scheme)
in 2013 and 2015 respectively on a pilot basis to allow eligible White Form
applicants to purchase HOS flats with premium unpaid. This allows tenants of
private premises more opportunities to become home‑owners and at the same
time facilitates the turnover of HOS flats.
149. Taking into account the Tenants Purchase Scheme (TPS) flats with
premium unpaid, there are a total of 380 000 flats available on the secondary
market for purchase by White Form buyers. I propose that the HKHA
regularise the Interim Scheme.
“Starter Homes” Pilot Scheme for Hong Kong Residents
150. In my Election Manifesto, I proposed to introduce, on top of HOS,
affordable “Starter Homes” for Hong Kong middle‑class families, thus
re‑igniting the hopes of families with higher income to own a home in the face
of hiking private property prices. This has generated a lot of attention in the
community. I must reiterate that given the limited land supply for public
housing, the Government will provide the proposed “Starter Homes” units
only on the premise that the existing supply of public housing will not be
affected. It now appears that the land supply for “Starter Homes” will have to
come from sites already owned by private developers or to be bought from the
Government.
151. Our initial thinking is to incorporate provisions into the land lease to
require developers to pursue mixed developments, i.e., to design, build and
offer for sale a specified number of “Starter Homes” units in addition to private
housing units, and to sell these units to target buyers who meet the eligibility
criteria set by the Government. These criteria include, among others, Hong
Kong residents who have lived in Hong Kong for seven years or more and have
never owned any property here. Their income will fall between the income
limits for HOS applicants and about 30% higher than the HOS limits. Based on
the prevailing HOS income limits, the upper income limit for the new scheme
will be set at not exceeding $34,000 a month for singletons and $68,000 for
households with two or more members. The prices and sizes of such units will
be determined having regard to the affordability of eligible buyers. The
alienation restrictions may be tighter than those for the HOS. We need to
further consider how to deal with the subsidy to the buyers at the time of
purchase, i.e., the issue of premium payment.
152. As “Starter Homes” is a new concept and a type of Government‑subsidised
flats for sale, the implementation details will intertwine with those of HOS and
GSH, which will see a notable increase in supply. The Government will discuss 
52
with the HKHA and relevant sectors and listen carefully to the views of the
community. Details of the scheme will be finalised for announcement in
mid‑2018, so as to dovetail with our proposal to launch a pilot scheme by the
end of next year using a residential site at Anderson Road, Kwun Tong on the
Government’s Land Sale Programme to provide about 1 000 residential units.
Community Initiatives on Social Housing
153. Even if our housing policy has broad community support, it takes time
to identify land for increasing housing supply. The current‑term Government
will think out of the box to facilitate the implementation of various short‑term
community initiatives to increase the supply of transitional housing, with a
view to alleviating the hardship faced by families on the PRH waiting list and
the inadequately housed. Specific measures that may be considered include:
(i) optimising the use of idle government premises by providing
rental housing units like those under the “Light Housing” project
launched by Light Be in Sham Tseng;
(ii) supporting the Community Housing Movement initiated by the
Hong Kong Council of Social Service on a pilot basis, including
encouraging the Urban Renewal Authority to participate by
offering units in old buildings;
(iii) facilitating the Hong Kong Housing Society in allowing the
owners of its subsidised housing to rent out their flats with
premium unpaid to needy families at below market rentals on a
pilot basis;
(iv) exploring the wholesale conversion of industrial buildings into
transitional housing with waiver of land premium; and
(v) supporting non‑profit‑making organisations to explore the
feasibility of constructing pre‑fabricated modular housing on idle
sites.
154. Admittedly, the above measures are unable to resolve the problem of
insufficient supply we face today. Nevertheless, they will help us pool
community efforts and resources and demonstrate our determination in
tackling this priority livelihood issue together.
53
Healthcare Services
Improving Healthcare System and Services
155. To ensure the long‑term sustainable development of our healthcare
system and safeguard the health of our population, the Government will
devote effort and allocate resources in a focused manner to improve our
healthcare system and services. Measures include: actively promoting primary
healthcare, enhancing public health regulation and promoting advancements in
medical technology. The Government will also proactively support the
development of Chinese medicine.
Primary Healthcare
156. Together with Professor Rosie Young and other members of the
Working Party on Primary Health Care, I set out a blueprint for the delivery of
primary healthcare in the early 1990s.
157. As a matter of fact, a comprehensive and co‑ordinated primary
healthcare system will enhance overall public health, reduce hospital
re‑admission and rectify the situation where accident and emergency service is
regarded as the first point of contact in seeking medical consultation. The
Government is determined to step up efforts to promote individual and
community involvement, enhance co‑ordination among various medical and
social sectors, and strengthen district‑level primary healthcare services.
Through these measures, we aim to encourage the public to take precautionary
measures against diseases, enhance their capability in self‑care and home care,
and reduce the demand for hospitalisation.
158. We will set up a steering committee on primary healthcare
development to comprehensively review the existing planning of primary
healthcare services and draw up a development blueprint. The Committee,
comprising healthcare professionals, academics, non‑governmental
organisations and community partners, is tasked to advise on the
Government’s strategy on the development of primary healthcare services. Its
work will include drawing up a model for district‑based medical‑social
collaboration, using big data to identify the areas of medical care services
requiring in‑depth study, establishing a framework to implement measures on
disease prevention in a more systematic manner (e.g. vaccination), disease
screening and identification (especially chronic diseases such as stroke) and
strengthening scientifically proven service provision and policy‑led
development work.
54
159. To further illustrate the effectiveness of medical‑social collaboration, I
have asked the Food and Health Bureau to set up a district health centre with a
brand new operation mode in Kwai Tsing District within two years. The
Government will provide funding for the centre according to the needs and
characteristics of the district, with a view to enhancing public awareness of
disease prevention and their capability in self‑management of health through
public‑private partnership, providing support for the chronically ill as well as
relieving the pressure on specialist and hospital services. The planned district
health centre will make use of the local network to procure services from
organisations and healthcare personnel serving the district so that the public
can receive necessary care in the community. Kwai Tsing District Council
made use of the $100 million provided by the Government in 2013 for
district‑based signature projects to launch a number of healthcare services in
collaboration with local associations and non‑profit‑making organisations, and
has built a solid foundation for the further extension of district‑based primary
healthcare services. With the experience gained from the pilot scheme, we will
progressively set up district health centres in other districts.
Services of the Hospital Authority
160. The Government will deploy sufficient resources and enhance the
supporting infrastructure to keep improving the healthcare services and
facilities provided by the public sector. We will introduce a new arrangement
by undertaking to increase the recurrent funding for the Hospital Authority
(HA) progressively on a triennium basis, having regard to population growth
rates and demographic changes. This will enable HA to address the staffing
issue and service demands arising from a growing and ageing population in a
more effective and sustained manner. On the supporting infrastructure, the
Government and the HA will press ahead with the delivery of the 10‑year
Public Hospital Development Plan, for which $200 billion has been earmarked,
and kick‑start the next round of public hospital development planning in the
coming five years. We will also discuss the future development needs of the
CUHK Medical Centre with the Chinese University of Hong Kong.
161. On healthcare manpower, as pledged in my Election Manifesto, the HA
will employ all qualified local medical graduates and provide them with
relevant specialist training. Over 2 000 medical graduates will register as
medical practitioners in the next five years. The HA will make every effort to
retain existing and rehire retired healthcare professionals as appropriate. It
will also proactively recruit qualified non‑locally trained doctors through
limited registration to provide clinical services in the public healthcare system.
55
162. The HA will set up more nurse clinics and seek to achieve better
results by deploying multi‑disciplinary teams. It will also increase the number
of pharmacists to strengthen its clinical pharmacy service, study ways for
better resource deployment to improve pharmacy services for elderly persons
living in elderly homes, improve the manpower ratio for psychiatric services
under the Case Management Programme, and explore how to manage stable
psychiatric patients through public‑private partnership.
163. In addition, the HA has formulated a strategic service framework on
palliative care to set out specific guidelines on its service model and system
infrastructure. Measures will be introduced to provide palliative care and
end‑of‑life care services for an increased number of terminally ill patients
within hospital settings and in the community. Such measures include home
palliative care, increasing the frequency of home visits by nurses each year and
training for the staff of residential care homes for the elderly. Meanwhile, the
Government will consider amending the relevant legislation to give patients the
choice of “dying in place”.
164. To enhance community health through cross‑sector and
multi‑disciplinary collaboration, we will regularise the Dementia Community
Support Scheme and extend it to all 41 district elderly community centres so
that appropriate support services can be provided for elderly people with mild
or moderate dementia and their carers through a medical‑social collaboration
model. Based on the evaluation results of the Student Mental Health Support
Pilot Scheme, we will consider ways to provide appropriate support services for
students with mental health needs.
Support for Uncommon Diseases
165. There have been appeals in recent years for more assistance to be
provided for patients with uncommon diseases. Having regard to the
evidence‑based requirements and principles adopted by the HA when
considering the listing of drugs in its Drug Formulary, the Government and the
HA have agreed to implement the following improvement measures:
(i) extending the scope of the assistance programme to provide
patients with subsidies for specific drug treatments according to
individual patients’ special clinical needs. Eligible patients will be
subsidised to participate in compassionate programmes of
individual pharmaceutical companies; and
(ii) the HA will expedite the review of the patient’s co‑payment
mechanism under the Community Care Fund Programme with a 
56
view to alleviating the financial burden on patients requiring
long‑term ultra‑expensive drug treatment. The HA will complete
the review in the first half of 2018 and propose improvement
measures.
166. The Drug Management Committee under the HA and the relevant
committees will more closely monitor the research developments and the
accumulation of medical scientific evidence for new drugs so that
financially‑needy patients who require the use of ultra‑expensive drugs,
including patients with uncommon diseases, could receive early treatment.
Enhancing Public Health Regulation
167. To safeguard public health and maintain public trust in the healthcare
system, the Government will proactively follow up on the legislative work of
the Medical Registration (Amendment) Bill 2017, which was introduced into the
LegCo in June 2017. The Government will pursue the Accredited Registers
Scheme for Healthcare Professions by completing the accreditation process for
speech therapists, clinical psychologists, educational psychologists, audiologists
and dietitians to pave the way for setting up a statutory registration regime for
these professions. The Government will enhance the regulation of private
healthcare facilities by establishing a new licensing system through legislation.
The Private Healthcare Facilities Bill was introduced into the LegCo for
scrutiny in June 2017.
Promoting Voluntary Health Insurance Scheme and Scientific
Research
168. The Government plans to implement the Voluntary Health Insurance
Scheme in 2018 and will amend tax legislation to offer tax incentives for
members of the public who procure such health insurance products. To
harness the potential of new technology for better public health policies and
clinical outcomes, we will set up a steering committee to lead the study on
strategies for developing genomic medicine in Hong Kong.
Development of Chinese Medicine
169. With increasing public demand for Chinese medicine services in recent
years, we have enhanced training for Chinese medicine practitioners. The
Government will strive to facilitate the development of Chinese medicine in
Hong Kong so that it will assume a more prominent role in promoting public
health.
57
170. As a first step, the Government will set up a dedicated unit under the
Food and Health Bureau to oversee Chinese medicine development. The
dedicated unit will be responsible for maintaining close liaison with the
Chinese medicine sector as well as co‑ordinating and implementing the
strategies and measures for promoting the development of Chinese medicine in
Hong Kong. The unit will examine options to further the development of
Chinese medicine, including exploring ways to open up markets in the
Mainland and neighbouring countries.
171. The Government is actively planning for a Chinese medicine hospital
at a site in Tseung Kwan O. Local stakeholders and overseas experts are being
consulted on the governance framework, business model, operating model,
financial model and contract management model of the hospital. We expect to
announce in the first half of 2018 the positioning of the Chinese medicine
hospital, as well as, the development framework for major areas of the hospital.
172. To foster the professional development of Chinese medicine
practitioners, the Government will organise various training courses, such as
diploma courses on Chinese medicine specialty for registered Chinese
medicine practitioners and basic Western pharmacy training for Chinese
medicine pharmacists. The Government will also provide relevant Chinese
medicine training courses for medical practitioners, nurses and healthcare
professionals. To attract more talent to join the Chinese medicine sector, the
Government will review the remuneration package and promotion
opportunities for staff employed at all levels in the Chinese Medicine Centre
for Training and Research in the 18 districts.
173. The Government will also include information on Chinese medicine in
the scope of information sharing in the second‑stage development of the
Electronic Health Record Sharing System (eHRSS). We will continue to
standardise medical terminologies of the Chinese medicine and develop the
Chinese Medicine Information System On‑ramp so as to facilitate the access to,
and sharing of, patients’ information among Chinese medicine practitioners
who choose to use the eHRSS in future.
174. To develop Hong Kong into an international hub for scientific research
on Chinese medicines testing and quality control, the Government will speed
up the establishment of the permanent Government Chinese Medicines Testing
Institute, and empower the industry to strengthen quality control of their
products through the development of internationally‑recognised reference
standards for Chinese medicines and related products and technology transfer.
58
Social Welfare
Poverty Alleviation
175. To build a harmonious society, the Government should look after the
underprivileged with compassion. Through efficient use of public resources
and the efforts of the Commission on Poverty (CoP) and the Community Care
Fund (CCF), the Government has achieved much progress in the areas of
poverty alleviation, elderly care, and support for the disadvantaged over the
past few years. We have rolled out various initiatives to provide appropriate
support for the elderly, poverty‑stricken working families, persons with
disabilities, women and other people in need, including the Old Age Living
Allowance (OALA) and the Low‑income Working Family Allowance (LIFA). To
enhance the existing retirement protection system, the Government announced
the launch of two measures to improve the OALA in January this year.
Following the relaxation of the asset limit of the OALA in May this year, the
Government is making preparation for the implementation of a Higher Old
Age Living Allowance (HOALA) in mid‑2018 to provide a monthly allowance of
$3,435 to eligible elderly persons. As the measure will take retrospective effect
from 1 May this year, eligible beneficiaries of HOALA who are currently
receiving OALA will receive an additional one‑off sum of over $10,000 upon
launching of the HOALA.
Low‑income Working Family Allowance
176. The LIFA Scheme was introduced in May last year, with the aim to
encourage self‑reliance through employment for low‑income families who are
not receiving CSSA. It focuses on providing support for families with children
and youngsters, with the objective of easing cross‑generational poverty. As at
the end of August this year, more than 35 000 families (about 130 000 persons),
including 56 000 children or youngsters, are receiving LIFA. The total amount
of allowance disbursed exceeded $900 million. We have noted the views
expressed that the number of beneficiaries under LIFA is too small and that the
eligibility criteria and the application procedures are too stringent.
177. Soon after taking office in July this year, the current‑term Government
embarked on a comprehensive policy review of the LIFA Scheme with the
objective of bringing about early improvements so that more working
households could benefit. Taking into account stakeholders’ views and various
factors, the Government has decided to introduce the following improvement
measures on the LIFA Scheme:
(i) extending the Scheme to cover singletons;
59
(ii) introducing a tier with the income limit pitched at 70% of the
median monthly domestic household income (MMDHI), and
adopting the MMDHI of economically active households as the
basis for calculating the income limit;
(iii) for the working hour requirement, adding a new tier of 168 hours
a month for non‑single‑parent households and a new tier of
54 hours a month for single‑parent households. Households
meeting the respective monthly working hour requirements are
eligible for higher rates of allowance;
(iv) allowing household members to aggregate working hours for
assessing the allowance; and
(v) increasing all rates of allowance, and adding another tier of
¾ allowance rate between the current full‑rate allowance and
half‑rate allowance.
In addition, the LIFA Scheme will be renamed as the “Working Family
Allowance” Scheme. The Government expects that the above initiatives will be
implemented on 1 April 2018.
178. According to the above improvement measures, a four‑person
household with two eligible children will receive a total of $3,200 a month
under the Working Family Allowance Scheme if its monthly income is $19,000
or below and the total monthly working hours of all household members is not
less than 192. This is about 25% more than the monthly allowance of $2,600
given out under the existing LIFA Scheme for a similar household.
179. The Working Family and Student Financial Assistance Agency
(WFSFAA) is making preparation for implementing the above improvement
measures, and will conduct a new round of publicity and support services in
this connection. We agree that the design of the scheme should be as simple
and easy to understand as possible, with appropriate safeguards against abuse.
180. Upon the implementation of the above improvement measures, we
expect that the Working Family Allowance will basically cover the
household‑based applicants for the Work Incentive Transport Subsidy (WITS).
As such, we will abolish the household‑based WITS when implementing the
improvement measures. Furthermore, the WFSFAA will upgrade its
information technology (IT) systems. Upon project completion, the processing
of WITS applications submitted by individuals, which is currently performed
by the Labour Department will be taken up by WFSFAA. Processing of
Working Family Allowance applications and WITS applications by the same 
60
office would bring about more efficient and convenient service provision to
applicants.
181. Since its establishment in 2011, the CCF has launched 44 assistance
programmes with a total commitment of around $8.4 billion benefiting over
1.5 million cases as at the end of July this year. We will invite the CCF to
implement other new programmes and proactively regularise those
programmes with proven results.
Elderly Services
182. In the face of the challenges posed by an ageing population and the
ever increasing demand for welfare services in our society, the Government has
to be innovative in its thinking and approach in exploring solutions, such as
reviewing existing schemes and considering the future mode of service
delivery, in order to keep service delivery up‑to‑date with changing needs and
ensure more effective use of limited resources.
183. The Elderly Commission has completed the formulation of the Elderly
Services Programme Plan, which provides the basis for the future development
and planning for elderly services. Some of the recommendations will be
implemented in the near future. For example, the Pilot Scheme on Home Care
and Support for Elderly Persons with Mild Impairment is expected to be
launched in December this year while the Pilot Scheme on Support for Elderly
Persons Discharged from Public Hospitals After Treatment is expected to be
launched in early 2018. Moreover, the Government will regularly review the
implementation progress of the Elderly Services Programme Plan and make
adjustments as necessary.
184. The Government’s policy direction should accord priority to the
provision of home care and community care, supplemented by residential
care. The Government will provide additional resources to enhance
community and home care services, with the aim to achieve zero waiting
time. This will enable the elderly, especially those discharged from
hospitals, to recover and enjoy life in a familiar environment. Since August
this year, an additional 2 000 vouchers are available under the Second Phase
of the Pilot Scheme on Community Care Service Voucher for the Elderly to
support ageing in place for elderly persons with moderate or severe
impairment. The Government plans to further increase the number of
vouchers under the Second Phase of the Pilot Scheme by 1 000 to a total of
6 000 in 2018‑19.
61
185. Apart from increasing the service quotas, the Government will
improve manpower planning and proactively enhance the quality of
long‑term care service. We will launch a four‑year pilot scheme by setting
up a district‑based professional team, comprising social workers,
physiotherapists, occupational therapists, etc., to provide outreach services
for residents of private residential care homes for the elderly (RCHEs) and
residential care homes for persons with disabilities (RCHDs) to meet their
social and rehabilitation needs. The Government will also introduce visiting
medical practitioner services for residents of all RCHEs and RCHDs in Hong
Kong to proactively respond to seasonal influenza and episodic illnesses,
thus promoting their health conditions and reducing their reliability on the
public medical system. In addition, we will include more recognised service
providers in the Pilot Scheme on Residential Care Service Voucher for the
Elderly to turn the principle of “money‑following‑the‑user” into reality and
enhance the service quality of private elderly homes. Through these
measures, public and private organisations will play complementary roles in
the provision of elderly care service.
186. To proactively promote gerontechnology for improving the quality of
life of elderly persons and reduce the burden and pressure of carers and care
staff, the Government will earmark $1 billion for setting up a fund to
subsidise elderly service units to trial use and procure technology products.
The initiative will also cover rehabilitation service units.
Rehabilitation Services
187. The Hong Kong Rehabilitation Programme Plan (HKRPP) sets out the
strategic directions as well as short‑, medium‑ and long‑term measures to
address various service needs of persons with disabilities, such as residential
and day care, community support, employment, barrier‑free facilities,
transport, healthcare, education, sports and arts. The HKRPP was last
reviewed and updated in 2007. To keep our rehabilitation services updated
with changing needs, the Government has asked the Rehabilitation Advisory
Committee (RAC) to commence work this month to formulate a new HKRPP.
The HKRPP covers 10 types of disabilities. In view of the diverse needs of
persons with different disabilities, RAC will conduct an extensive public
engagement exercise early next year for stakeholders to hold systematic and
thorough discussions on the rehabilitation service needs of persons with
disabilities at different life stages and other related issues. RAC aims to submit
a report on the new HKRPP in 2019.
62
188. We will continue to improve our rehabilitation services pending the
completion of the report. Efforts would include increasing the number of
places of pre‑school children service, day service and residential service; and
strengthening community support for persons with disabilities, in particular
mental health support services. The Social Welfare Department will create new
clinical psychologist posts at Integrated Community Centres for Mental
Wellness to step up professional support for ex‑mentally ill persons and
persons suspected to suffer from mental health problems through the provision
of individual or group psychological treatment, and to strengthen the
capabilities of frontline professionals in these centres through clinical
supervision.
189. Furthermore, the Special Scheme on Privately Owned Sites for Welfare
Uses will adopt a flexible and innovative approach, whereby social welfare
organisations will be encouraged and subsidised to make better use of their site
to augment the provision of welfare facilities through expansion,
redevelopment or new development, in particular elderly care, rehabilitation
and child care facilities, which are in high demand, and other associated
developments. A facility under the scheme has already come into operation,
adding 100 places for rehabilitation services. Facilities under five more projects
are expected to be completed by 2018‑19, providing about 260 additional places
of elderly services and 920 additional places of rehabilitation services in total.
Based on a welfare service‑oriented approach and the principle of enhancing
people’s livelihood, we will flexibly process development proposals on
optimising land use received from social welfare organisations, taking into
account the preference of individual organisations.
Special Needs Trust
190. Some parents are worried about the care of their children with special
needs, in particular those with intellectual disabilities, after they have passed
away. They may have difficulties in finding relatives or friends who are
trustworthy and capable of managing their wealth. On the other hand, most of
these parents are unable to afford the high cost of setting up a private trust.
The Government has decided to take the lead in setting up a “special needs
trust”, with the Director of Social Welfare as the trustee, to provide reliable and
affordable trust services for managing the assets of deceased parents. Regular
disbursement will be made to the carers of their children, who may be
individuals or organisations, in accordance with the parents’ wishes. This is to
ensure that their assets will be used for meeting the long‑term daily needs of
their children. The Labour and Welfare Bureau (LWB) will continue to follow
up with stakeholders on the details regarding the setting up of the trust.
63
Commission on Children
191. The Government plans to set up a Commission on Children in the
middle of next year to amalgamate the efforts made by relevant bureaux/
departments and child concern groups, and focus on addressing children’s
issues as they grow. To this end, a preparatory committee chaired by the Chief
Executive was established last month, with the Chief Secretary for
Administration as the Vice‑chairman. Members of the preparatory committee
include the Policy Secretaries of relevant bureaux; experts in children affairs,
such as members of the healthcare, education, social welfare and legal sectors;
as well as academics and representatives of ethnic minorities and parents.
192. The preparatory committee held its first meeting early this month to
discuss the roles and functions of the Commission on Children as well as its
work priorities as suggested by the stakeholders. It will conduct a series of
public engagement activities to canvass views from the community extensively
including those of children, so as to ensure that the functions and the work of
the new Commission on Children will have the support of the community.
193. In future, the Commission on Children may co‑ordinate its work with
the existing platforms. One of these platforms is the Child Development Fund.
Operating on the basis of tripartite and cross‑sector collaboration among the
community and family, the business sector and the Government, the Fund
aims at building an environment conducive to the growth of children from a
disadvantaged background to support their longer‑term development, thereby
alleviating inter‑generational poverty. We will inject $300 million into the
Fund in 2018‑19 for launching more projects which aim to boost the
self‑motivation and confidence of children from low‑income families and help
them plan for their future.
Food Assistance Service
194. The Short‑term Food Assistance Service provides basic food supply for
low‑income earners who have difficulties in coping with their food expenditure
temporarily for a period of generally up to eight weeks at a time. Since its
introduction in 2009, the service has recorded over 250 000 visits. The total
funding for this initiative is $600 million. The Government will allocate an
additional $447 million for extending the service for three years to 2020‑21.
A comprehensive review of the initiative will be conducted in parallel.
Promoting the Employment of Persons with Disabilities
195. As an employer, the Government will take the lead in promoting the
employment of persons with disabilities in order to foster an inclusive society. 
64
In addition to implementing measures to facilitate persons with disabilities to
apply for government jobs and to ensure that they enjoy equal opportunities in
employment, we will enhance the transparency of civil service recruitment by
publishing the success rates of persons with disabilities as well as those for
other candidates in the hope of encouraging the private sector to employ more
persons with disabilities in the long run.
196. We will also further expand the Internship Scheme for Students with
Disabilities next year. Our target is to double the number of internship places,
increasing from an average of 50 a year in the past two years to 100, to allow
more young persons with disabilities to gain hands‑on work experience
through placements in the Government, thereby strengthening their
competitiveness before they enter the work force. The scheme also enables civil
service colleagues to appreciate the talents and potential of persons with
disabilities. To enhance the scheme, we will arrange for interns to take up
more diversified jobs.
Providing Support for Ethnic Minorities
197. At present, there are hundreds of thousands of non‑ethnic Chinese,
including more than 80 000 South Asians, living in Hong Kong. Some of them
have encountered difficulties in adaptation and social integration due to
language barriers and cultural differences. Through enhancing relevant
legislation as well as enhancing employment and other support services for the
ethnic minorities (EM), the Government seeks to provide them with equal
opportunities and facilitate their integration into our community.
198. On legislation, the Race Discrimination Ordinance, which is enforced
by the Equal Opportunities Commission (EOC), was fully implemented in 2009.
The EOC reviews the operation of the Ordinance on a regular basis and puts
forward legislative amendment proposals where necessary. Last year, the EOC
submitted its proposals on the Discrimination Law Review to the Government.
Among these proposals, nine recommendations were accorded priority of
which seven related to Race Discrimination Ordinance. We aim to submit the
legislative amendment proposals to the LegCo in the 2017‑18 LegCo session.
199. To support non‑Chinese speaking students in learning the Chinese
language systematically and to assist their integration into the community, the
EDB has implemented the Chinese Language Curriculum Second Language
Learning Framework (Learning Framework) in primary and secondary schools
since the 2014/15 school year. The EDB has been observing the implementation
of the Learning Framework in schools to collect first‑hand information
regarding curriculum planning, learning, teaching, and assessment for 
65
discussion with experts, academics and teachers so as to gauge its effectiveness.
Views of EM parents and relevant organisations will also be taken into
consideration.
200. With a view to increasing government job opportunities for EM, the
Civil Service Bureau has started to co‑ordinate a comprehensive review on the
entry requirements relating to Chinese proficiency for all the grades of the civil
service. The review is expected to be completed early next year. Besides, to
further support and assist the EM to integrate into society and to cultivate
positive values, the Hong Kong Police will launch a regular cross‑disciplined
forces training programme targeting EM youths to provide them with
discipline, physical and team‑building training.
Labour Rights
Abolishing the “Offsetting” Arrangement under the Mandatory
Provident Fund System
201. Abolition of the arrangement for “offsetting” severance payment (SP)
and long service payment (LSP) with Mandatory Provident Fund (MPF)
contributions is one of the priority tasks of current‑term Government after
assumption of office. At present, over $3 billion of accrued benefits from
employers’ MPF contributions is used each year for offsetting SP or LSP, thus
reducing the total amount of MPF benefits to which employees are entitled on
retirement. The last‑term Government proposed to progressively abolish the
“offsetting” arrangement. Although the business sector and the labour sector
did not arrive at a consensus in the end, both sides displayed sincerity in
addressing the “offsetting” issue during the consultation process. Since July
2017, the current‑term Government has been in active discussion with the
business sector and the labour sector to explore viable options. By now, the
community has by and large reached a broad consensus on whether
“offsetting” should be abolished. The current‑term Government has made clear
its stance that the “offsetting” arrangement should be abolished and is willing
to increase its financial commitment to mitigate the impact of the abolition on
enterprises, in particular micro, small and medium enterprises. With reference
to the views collected, we are studying how we can assist employers in saving
up a dedicated reserve in advance to cover any potential expenses that may
arise from SP or LSP payment to their employees in the future. We expect to
put forward a proposal that takes into account the interests of both the labour
sector and the business sector in the coming months.
66
Improving Employees’ Benefits
202. The LWB has completed the review on the statutory paternity leave
and initially proposes to increase paternity leave from the current three days to
five days. The Labour Department will report the outcome of the review to the
Labour Advisory Board and the LegCo Panel on Manpower and consult their
views within this year. In recent years, the labour sector and the women’s
sectors have also proposed to improve maternity benefits of female employees,
including extending the duration of the 10‑week statutory maternity leave. On
the premise of balancing the needs of working women on the one hand and the
affordability of enterprises on the other, the Government will commence a
study and work on the enhancement of maternity leave.
Occupational Safety and Health
203. The Government attaches importance to occupational safety and health
(OSH) of employees. While the overall OSH situation in Hong Kong has seen
continuous improvement, the industrial accident rate of the construction
industry remains relatively high. The Government is particularly concerned
about the fatal construction accidents which occurred during the year. In view
of this, we will adopt a three‑pronged approach to enhance the OSH of the
construction industry by stepping up inspection and enforcement, publicity
and promotion, as well as education and training. We are also aware that the
relatively lenient penalties for non‑compliance of OSH legislation have failed to
reflect the seriousness of the offences. We therefore consider it necessary to
impose heavier penalties against breaches of OSH legislation, as appropriate, in
order to achieve a greater deterrent effect and further enhance OSH protection
for workers. We are pressing ahead with the review on relevant legislation and
are seeking advice from the DoJ. We aim to put forward the broad directions of
the proposed legislative amendments within this year.
Relieving the Burden of Public Transport Expenses
204. Public transport expenses is an essential expenditure item in our daily
living expenses. I mentioned in my Election Manifesto that we should explore
the possibility of using the Government’s annual dividends receipt from the
MTRC Limited to relieve the fare burden of long distance grassroot commuters.
I would like to extend my appreciation to colleagues in the Transport and
Housing Bureau who, after three months of diligent effort, propose to introduce
a non‑means tested Public Transport Fare Subsidy Scheme to provide fare
subsidy, to an extent, for commuters if their monthly public transport expenses
exceed a specified level. Our proposal is to set the line at $400 in the monthly 
67
expenditure on public transport, with the Government providing a subsidy
amounting to 25% of the actual expenses in excess of this level, subject to a cap
of $300 a month. We anticipate that over 2 million commuters will benefit from
the scheme, which will cover the fares of MTR, franchised buses, green
minibuses, ferries and trams. The scheme will be simple and easy to
understand, and will not require any application. The Government aims to
launch the scheme within one year after obtaining funding approval from the
LegCo Finance Committee.
Municipal Services
Public Markets
205. Based on our new thinking on governance focused on bringing
benefits and convenience to the public, we will make available resources for
building new public markets to offer wider choices of fresh provisions in
Tung Chung, Tin Shui Wai and Hung Shui Kiu. In this connection, we will also
consider adopting new approaches to the design, construction and operation of
these markets. The Government will conduct a comprehensive review of
existing public markets and formulate specific improvement measures for both
the facilities and their management in a systematic manner. As far as the
hardware is concerned, the Government will allocate resources to improve the
environment of existing public markets. One of the measures is to expedite the
installation of air‑conditioners.
Environmental Hygiene
206. In the coming five years, we will deploy resources to improve
environmental cleanliness, and will continue to step up effort in law
enforcement and prosecution. To this end, we will set up additional dedicated
enforcement teams and extend the pilot scheme on the installation of Internet
Protocol cameras at hygiene blackspots to cover all the 18 districts.
Policy on Burial
207. The Government is determined to take forward the burial policy by
adopting a three‑pronged approach to cater for the long‑term need of the
public. On the regulation of private columbaria, the Private Columbaria
Ordinance has come into operation since 30 June 2017. We endeavour to
implement and enhance the regulatory regime in order to resolve this
long‑standing issue. As regards public niche supply, the Government will
continue to press ahead with the development projects under the district‑based
scheme in order to secure the supply for the coming 15 years. We will also
continue our effort in promoting green burial.
68
Food Safety
208. The Government will further enhance the governance of our food
safety regime, and strike a balance between safeguarding food safety and
ensuring the stability of food supply. We will make timely effort to update the
local food safety standards, including tightening the regulation of metallic
contaminants and other harmful substances in food. To enhance its capability
in conducting risk‑based surveillance and taking contingency measures in food
incidents, the Centre for Food Safety will improve its information technology
systems to enhance its capability in risk analysis and food traceability, and to
interface with the “Trade Single Window”.
209. We must safeguard the stable supply of powdered formulae and ensure
that local demand is not adversely affected by parallel trading activities.
Mindful of the concerns of different stakeholders in the community over the
export control of powdered formulae, we will carry out a review on this issue,
and explore long‑term measures to safeguard the stability of local supply of
powdered formulae.
69
VI. Liveable City
My Belief
210. For Hong Kong people to be happy, hopeful, confident about the future
and have a sense of belonging, a vital prerequisite is that Hong Kong is a
liveable place. Our people’s aspiration for a liveable city has grown in step with
social development. In addition to increasing the supply of land and housing
that are necessities of our community, a convenient transport network, a green
countryside, a beautiful harbour, a sustainable environment, a heritage of
historical significance, as well as culture, arts, recreational and sports activities
and good social order are all indispensable building blocks that make up a
quality city, where people will be keen to stay and make it their home.
Transport
211. Although small and densely‑populated, Hong Kong has developed into
a liveable city with our continuous effort in improving public transport services
and facilities. Over the years, it has been the Government’s transport policy to
develop a public transport‑oriented system with railway as the backbone. At
the same time, we strive to develop other public transport services to
complement the railway services and provide the public with more choices for
added convenience. Over 12 million passenger trips are made on different
public transport services in Hong Kong every day, accounting for over 90% of
the total passenger trips made on a daily basis. This percentage is unparalleled
anywhere in the world. That is why officials from other major cities often come
to Hong Kong to learn from our success.
Public Transport Strategy Study
212. That said, we cannot afford to be complacent. We must continue to
develop and enhance our public transport services so that the public can travel
conveniently. The Public Transport Strategy Study, completed in June this year,
reaffirmed the key factors for the success of Hong Kong’s public transport
system and put forward concrete improvement measures so that the public can
enjoy even more efficient, convenient and diversified public transport services.
The Government is actively implementing these measures. One of them is the
increase of the maximum seating capacity of light buses from 16 to 19 since July
2017, which enhances the overall carrying capacity of the light buses to meet
passenger demand, particularly during peak periods. The first batch of 19‑seat
light buses has already commenced service. Meanwhile, we are making
preparation for launching franchised taxis with “online‑hailing” features to
address the new demand for personalised and point‑to‑point public transport 
70
services in the community. We are also working with the franchised bus
companies on the implementation of trial schemes of new long‑haul bus
services and mid‑sized single‑deck bus services so as to provide more choices
for passengers and meet different service needs of the community. In addition,
we will continue to take forward the short‑, medium‑ and long‑term measures
for enhancing the carrying capacity of the Light Rail as well as the study on the
long‑term operation model of outlying island ferry services.
Barrier‑free Transport
213. The Government is actively discussing the implementation details of
the low‑floor wheelchair‑accessible light bus trial scheme with the relevant light
bus operators. Examination and approval of the specifications and installations
of the new vehicle models are underway. The trial scheme is expected to be
implemented in phases, starting from the fourth quarter of this year, on three
hospital routes, covering Queen Mary Hospital, Prince of Wales Hospital and
St. Teresa’s Hospital.
Road Infrastructure
214. The Government is pressing ahead with a number of major road
infrastructure projects. The Central‑Wanchai Bypass and the Island Eastern
Corridor Link is targeted for commissioning in end 2018 or the first quarter of
2019, and the Tseung Kwan O‑Lam Tin Tunnel in 2021. In addition, we hope to
obtain early funding approval from the LegCo for constructing the Central
Kowloon Route. We will also take forward the construction of the Cross Bay
Link in Tseung Kwan O as well as the widening of Tai Po Road (Sha Tin
Section) in order to meet the transport needs in different districts in Hong
Kong.
Railway
215. Railway is the backbone of the public transportation system, with a
daily patronage of over 5.2 million. The overall performance of the railway
service in Hong Kong is steady, attaining international best standards. The Tai
Wai to Hung Hom section and the Hung Hom to Admiralty section of the
Shatin to Central Link is targeted for commissioning in mid‑2019 and 2021
respectively. By 2021, the railway network will cover areas inhabited by more
than 70% of the Hong Kong population. For the next stage of railway
development, the Government will take forward the new railway projects
under the Railway Development Strategy 2014 in an orderly manner. We aim
to consult the public on the railway schemes of Tuen Mun South Extension and
the Northern Link (and Kwu Tung Station) in 2018. In parallel, we will proceed 
71
with the detailed planning for the East Kowloon Line, the Tung Chung West
Extension (and Tung Chung East Station) and the North Island Line.
216. The MTR network is admittedly quite congested during peak periods
and individual incidents have led to service disruptions, thus causing
inconvenience to passengers. The Government has requested the MTR
Corporation Limited to consider encouraging passengers to ride during
non‑peak periods so as to divert the peak‑hour passenger flow; and to enhance
the release of real‑time train service information so that passengers could make
early planning for their trips.
Alleviating Road Traffic Congestion
217. Like other major cities, Hong Kong has to cope with a heavy vehicular
and pedestrian flow. We are committed to making the best use of the road
network to shorten the commuting time for the public and reduce the social
costs arising from road traffic congestion. The Government will continue to
pursue various measures progressively to alleviate road traffic congestion.
Among these measures, we will make early preparation for the implementation
of the Electronic Road Pricing Pilot Scheme in Central and its vicinity in order
to alleviate congestion in busy districts. We will also implement a series of
short‑ and medium‑ to long‑term measures to increase parking spaces in
various districts having regard to the local situation in order to combat illegal
parking. We will accord priority to meeting the parking needs of commercial
vehicles, and will at the same time provide an appropriate number of parking
spaces for private cars. These measures include studying the opening up of
parking spaces and loading/unloading bays currently designated for own use
of the development projects concerned and putting them up for night‑time
public parking of commercial vehicles; requiring developers to provide parking
spaces at the higher end of the range under the Hong Kong Planning Standards
and Guidelines; and providing public car parks in suitable new government,
institution and community facilities.
Co‑location Arrangement for the
Guangzhou‑Shenzhen‑Hong Kong Express Rail Link
218. Since the inauguration of the current‑term Government, one of the
most concerned issues that has attracted the widest public attention is the
arrangement for customs, immigration and quarantine clearance (clearance
arrangements) for the Hong Kong Section of the Guangzhou‑Shenzhen‑Hong
Kong Express Rail Link (XRL). Since our announcement of the proposal for
implementing the co‑location clearance arrangement at the West Kowloon
Station of the Hong Kong Section of the XRL on 25 July this year, there has 
72
been extensive discussion in the community. Efficient and time‑saving
clearance procedures are absolutely essential to realising the full potential of
the XRL in terms of speed and convenience. Similar co‑location arrangement
can be found in the cross‑border transport services in other cities and countries
around the world, and I believe many Hong Kong people have experienced
such clearance service when travelling elsewhere. The co‑location arrangement
for Shenzhen Bay Port, in smooth operation since its implementation in 2007,
has been well received by travellers. The proposal of implementing a
co‑location arrangement at the West Kowloon Station is a practical and effective
solution in line with “One Country, Two Systems” and does not contravene the
Basic Law. It is also the most practical and cost‑effective option to realise the
transport, social and economic benefits of the XRL. This arrangement will also
maximise convenience to passengers and avoid causing security problems. The
Government has given notice to initiate a motion debate on this issue at the
LegCo sitting on 25 October this year. After examining the views from various
parties including LegCo members, the Government will take forward the
follow‑up tasks of the co‑location arrangement pursuant to the “Three‑step
Process” proposal announced earlier. These include reaching a Co‑operation
Arrangement with the Mainland, seeking the approval and endorsement of the
Co‑operation Arrangement by the Standing Committee of the National People’s
Congress through a decision to be made by the Standing Committee and
commencing the local legislative process thereafter so as to meet the target of
implementing the co‑location arrangement at the West Kowloon Station upon
the commissioning of the Hong Kong Section of the XRL in the third quarter of
2018.
The Hong Kong‑Zhuhai‑Macao Bridge
219. We will continue to press full steam ahead with another external land
transport infrastructure project of Hong Kong – the construction of the Hong
Kong Section of the Hong Kong‑Zhuhai‑Macao Bridge (HZMB) – to dovetail
with the commissioning of the HZMB. We will announce the commissioning
date of the entire HZMB as soon as possible subject to factors such as the
implementation of cross‑boundary traffic measures, the results of the
discussion among the governments of Guangdong, Hong Kong and Macao and
the subsequent reporting to the HZMB Central Task Force.
Pedestrian‑friendly Environment
220. The Government will continue to take forward “Walk in HK” and
encourage people to walk more so as to reduce the use of mechanised transport 
73
for short‑distance commuting. This will help alleviate traffic congestion and
improve air quality, and develop Hong Kong into a walkable city. The “Walk in
HK” initiative will provide user‑friendly information on walking routes,
enhance pedestrian networks, make walking a pleasant experience, and
provide a safe and quality pedestrian environment. Measures include
progressively taking forward the construction of covers for suitable walkways
in different districts, selecting two pilot areas in Hong Kong within next year to
study the creation of an innovative measure and comfortable walking
environment on a pilot basis, and commencing a study towards the end of this
year to review and improve the assessment mechanism for proposed hillside
escalator links and elevator systems projects.
City Management
221. A quality city has to be well managed, in addition to being equipped
with various public facilities. Our standard of city management has always
been acclaimed internationally. Hong Kong is also one of the safest cities in the
world. We have a clean and efficient civil service and an array of professional
public organisations of a high quality, including the AAHK, the MTR
Corporation Limited, various bus and public transport service providers as
well as power and gas companies. They provide the community with
up‑to‑date public services round the clock, ensuring our quality of life and the
efficient operation of our city.
222. The successive typhoons hitting Hong Kong in the past few months
did not bring serious casualty or economic loss. Our resilient infrastructure
including slope safety and flood prevention facilities, proved to be up to the
test. Various government departments and public service organisations
activated their emergency response mechanisms and co‑operated effectively
and seamlessly in various areas from alert and preventive measures,
dissemination of information, arranging temporary shelters and emergency
rescue services, to the prompt resumption of transport services and daily
public services afterwards. This bears testimony to the efficient and orderly
city management of Hong Kong. Global climate change will bring more
extreme weather, and Hong Kong cannot be spared. The Government will stay
vigilant and strive to keep hazards at bay. We will enhance our preventive
capability and resilience against natural disasters by making continuous
investment in various resilient infrastructure projects, keeping the existing
emergency response mechanisms and measures under review and further
improving them on an on‑going basis.
74
Building Safety
223. City management is also about safeguarding the safety of our citizens’
homes. The Government thus also attaches importance to the maintenance of
old buildings. The Operation Building Bright initiative launched in 2009 has
largely been completed, benefiting 3 000 buildings.
224. There are over 5 000 residential and composite buildings aged 50 years
or more in Hong Kong. Without timely inspection and maintenance, they will
pose hazards to both the residents and passers‑by. To further safeguard public
safety, the Government plans to launch “Operation Building Bright 2.0” at a
cost of around $3 billion. The initiative will adopt a risk‑based approach, with
a focus on the most needy owners and providing more targeted assistance.
Subsidy will be provided to owner‑occupiers of aged residential or composite
buildings with rateable values not exceeding the prescribed level for
undertaking primarily inspections of their buildings and repair works as
required under the Mandatory Building Inspection Scheme.
225. Apart from structural safety, enhancing fire safety of old buildings is
also critical in protecting lives and properties. In view of this, the Government
also plans to devote about $2 billion to subsidise owners of old composite
buildings to undertake fire safety enhancement measures as required by the
Fire Safety (Buildings) Ordinance.
226. We hope to launch “Operation Building Bright 2.0” and the
afore‑mentioned subsidy scheme for fire safety works in the second half of next
year to assist owners in tackling structural hazards and enhancing the fire
safety standards of their buildings. In addition, the Urban Renewal Authority
(URA) is carrying out a study on the Building Rehabilitation Strategy with a
view to prolonging the serviceable lifespan of buildings and arresting urban
decay. The URA is also setting up a one‑stop Building Rehabilitation Platform,
with the participation of professional bodies and members of the industry, to
provide comprehensive information and technical assistance to owners.
Drinking Water Safety
227. The “lead in drinking water” incident in public rental housing estates
two years ago has aroused public concern about drinking water safety. We will
take forward the Action Plan for Enhancing Drinking Water Safety in Hong
Kong announced in September this year. The plan covers five components,
including establishing a set of drinking water standards tailored for Hong
Kong and implementing water quality, monitoring at the consumers’ end,
strengthening the regulatory control of plumbing materials and commissioning
requirements for new plumbing installations, promoting the implementation of 
75
the Water Safety Plan for buildings, enhancing public education and publicity
on safe use of drinking water, setting up an independent dedicated team in the
Development Bureau to take up the role of a water quality regulator, and
conducting detailed studies to establish a drinking water safety regulatory
regime suitable for Hong Kong.
Water Quality of the Victoria Harbour
228. The water quality of the Victoria Harbour has improved substantially
following the completion of the Harbour Area Treatment Scheme (HATS) Stage
2A. As a result, the cross‑harbour swimming race this year will be held right at
the centre of the Victoria Harbour, reviving a race route used forty years ago.
To speed up the amelioration of the near‑shore odour problems of the Victoria
Harbour, the Government is conducting tender exercises for various sewerage
improvement projects and the construction of dry weather flow interceptors in
Kowloon and the New Territories. The upgrading of the Kwun Tong
Preliminary Treatment Works commenced in September and other works
projects will commence one‑by‑one within this year.
Beautification of the Harbourfront
229. The harbourfront is a precious natural asset in our urban area. We
encourage the community to make better use of the harbourfront so that it will
become more vibrant and more quality public space will be available for public
enjoyment. In partnership with the Harbourfront Commission, we will take
action in this area, including the identification of suitable harbourfront sites for
non‑governmental organisations to operate community facilities or organise
community events. In this regard, we aim to make available a site in Kennedy
Town for the running of a community garden and related uses through a
short‑term tenancy in the first quarter of 2018.
Environment and Nature Conservation
Climate Change and Energy
230. This summer, Hong Kong was repeatedly hit by tropical cyclones. The
storm surge induced by Hato caused serious tidal back flow in some low‑lying
areas. Climate change will lead to a continuous rise in the sea level, and the
challenges of extreme weather will exacerbate.
231. To combat climate change, we take actions in three areas, namely
mitigation, adaptation and resilience. The Steering Committee on Climate
Change, chaired by the Chief Secretary for Administration, has enhanced
co‑operation across bureaux and relevant departments in implementing the 
76
“Hong Kong’s Climate Action Plan 2030+”. We will review the effectiveness of
various measures in a timely manner and remain vigilant at all times.
232. Among others, the Climate Change Working Group on Infrastructure
co‑ordinates the effort of works departments in combating climate change.
Such effort includes reviewing the design standards of infrastructure and the
resilience of existing infrastructure, and updating them as necessary to
enhance protection against extreme weather. The Government will also
continue to put in more effort for carrying out analysis of climate change,
making forecasts on extreme weather and promoting disaster preparedness in
order to enhance the city’s resilience against climate change.
233. Mitigation of climate change also calls for immediate action. The Paris
Agreement, in effect since November 2016, applies to the HKSAR. To help
achieve the vision of the Paris Agreement, the Government will drive Hong
Kong’s low‑carbon transformation towards our target of reducing carbon
intensity by 65% to 70% by 2030 compared with the 2005 level.
234. Our low‑carbon transformation takes a multi‑pronged approach.
These measures include: adopting cleaner fuels, promoting territory‑wide
energy saving, commuting green and reducing waste, etc. Among others, we
will gradually replace most of our coal‑fired generation units with cleaner
energy sources, further encourage the development of renewable energy, and
implement the “Energy Saving Plan for Hong Kong’s Built Environment
2015~2025+” with a view to promoting energy efficiency, energy conservation
and green building, etc.
235. The Government entered into new Schemes of Control Agreements
(SCAs) with the power companies in the first half of this year. We will
announce details of the Feed‑in Tariff and the Renewable Energy Certificates
Schemes next year to promote distributed Renewable Energy. Details of a
series of new energy‑saving initiatives under the new SCAs will also be
announced.
236. In addition, we will actively promote the adoption of Renewable
Energy, energy conservation and green buildings on government premises.
Measures include the development of large‑scale Renewable Energy facilities at
suitable venues. An innovative example is the study undertaken by the Water
Supplies Department (WSD) to examine the feasibility of developing large‑scale
floating solar farms in Hong Kong by reference to the results of the pilot
schemes of the installation of floating photovoltaic systems at the Shek Pik
Reservoir and the Plover Cove Reservoir.
77
Air Quality
237. From a macro perspective, while implementing the action plan set
out in the “Clean Air Plan for Hong Kong 2013 – 2020”, the Government is
undertaking a review on the Air Quality Objectives (AQOs), which is
conducted once every five years. Through the working group and the public
consultation forum, we engage the community interactively and seize this
review opportunity to explore the possible scope for tightening the AQOs and
the strategies on relevant improvement measures. We plan to complete the
review in 2018.
238. Despite the discernible improvement in air quality over the past few
years as a result of the considerable effort made by the Government, marine
vessels remain the largest local emission source of air pollutants. To tackle this,
the Government has signed a co‑operation agreement with the Mainland on
joint efforts to take forward the implementation of a Domestic Marine Emission
Control Area in the Pearl River Delta. We plan to mandate vessels in Hong
Kong waters to use low sulphur fuel starting from January 2019. The
establishment of the emission control area in this region will set a leading
example in Asia.
239. In addition, we will explore the launch of pilot schemes for local ferries
and new government vessels to adopt green technologies to reduce their
emissions.
Waste Reduction and Recycling
240. The promotion of a “Use less, Waste less” culture is crucial to
achieving low‑carbon living. This calls for a multi‑pronged approach, and
waste reduction at source holds the key. The implementation of municipal solid
waste (MSW) charging is central to the “Hong Kong: Blueprint for Sustainable
Use of Resources 2013 – 2022”. It will introduce financial incentives to drive a
behavioural and cultural change, and encourage the community to practise
waste reduction and clean recycling more proactively. We are refining the
implementation arrangements announced earlier and aim to introduce an
amendment bill into the LegCo later.
241. To complement the implementation of the MSW Charging Scheme, we
will further step up our effort in supporting waste reduction at source and
clean recycling. Among others, an outreaching service and another round of
publicity and public education programme on clean recycling will be launched
to enhance public awareness of waste recycling. This in turn will increase the
recyclability and economic value of recyclables, thereby enlarging the supply of
suitable recyclables for the recycling industry.
78
242. Starting from early next year, the Mainland will progressively
introduce new measures in reforming its import management regime on
recyclables. This will bring new opportunities to the recycling industry in
Hong Kong. We are fine‑tuning the operation of the Recycling Fund
step‑by‑step to assist the industry, especially small and medium enterprises, in
expanding and upgrading their businesses. New subsidy programmes under
the Recycling Fund were launched in recent months to encourage the trade to
process their recyclables to a standard that meets the latest import
requirements of the Mainland.
243. In addition, the Environmental Protection Department (EPD) will
provide better support for collecting recyclables with lower recycling value
through enhanced co‑operation with non‑governmental organisations and
stakeholders. For instance, we will implement central collection of waste plastic
bottles so that these recyclables can be processed most cost‑effectively.
244. The EPD will also study the feasibility of nurturing a local
manufacturing industry using recycled materials in the long run. Under this
study, we will examine how best to support the development of such an
industry with the land and ancillary facilities at the EcoPark and look for more
long‑term, effective and diversified ways out for the processing of local
recyclables.
245. On addressing the challenge of food waste, following the gradual
establishment of a network of organic resources recovery centres, the EPD will
set up a dedicated Food Waste Recycling Group to implement source
separation and collection of food waste, study and formulate new regulatory
measures on food waste disposal, administer the Food Wise Hong Kong
Campaign, and facilitate food waste reduction and recycling. Furthermore, the
Food Wise Hong Kong Campaign will enter a new stage, during which we will
foster the “Food Wise” culture among the public and promote centralised food
waste recycling in the commercial and industrial sectors.
Nature Conservation
246. In response to the strong demand of the international community for
strengthening the control of ivory trade to eliminate the threat to the survival
of elephants, the Government moved the second reading of the Protection of
Endangered Species of Animals and Plants (Amendment) Bill 2017 in June this
year, to ban the import and re‑export of elephant trophies, phase out the local
ivory trade, and impose heavier penalties on smuggling and illegal trading of
endangered species. The LegCo has set up a Bills Committee to scrutinise the
Bill, and we hope that the Bill will be passed as soon as possible. We will also 
79
follow the common international practice of offering no compensation to the
ivory trade to avoid sending a wrong message, which might lead to further
poaching of elephants and smuggling of illegal ivory into Hong Kong by illicit
traders for seeking possible compensation. However, the Government will
offer appropriate assistance to the affected ivory craftsmen as far as possible.
247. While taking forward the “Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan
2016 – 2021”, we will continue to organise the Hong Kong Biodiversity Festival
in collaboration with community organisations to promote public appreciation
of the nature and wise consumption of biological resources in our daily lives.
248. Country parks are Hong Kong’s precious resources. To commemorate
the 40th anniversary of country parks, the Agriculture, Fisheries and
Conservation Department organised a series of programmes on the theme of
“Country Parks Our Legacy” for public enjoyment and to promote nature
conservation.
Countryside Revitalisation
249. Remote areas in the countryside are rich in ecological, architectural
and cultural resources. The Government will enhance the conservation of
these areas, thereby protecting the natural ecology of the countryside,
revitalising the architectural environment of villages, and conserving our
precious cultural resources. These actions will not only bring new life to the
almost desolate remote countryside, but also promote eco‑tourism, thus
responding to the community’s vision for urban‑rural symbiosis. In
collaboration with various NGOs, the Government has earlier carried out
various revitalisation projects and minor improvement works to rehabilitate the
ecological, cultural and architectural environment in Lai Chi Wo. The initiative
has the support of the villagers, and is well received by the community.
250. The Government will establish a Countryside Conservation Office to
co‑ordinate conservation projects that promote sustainable development of
remote countryside, and has earmarked $1 billion for such conservation effort
and revitalisation works. As a priority, the Office will, in collaboration with
NGOs on an interactive basis, organise diversified and innovative activities,
take forward the planning of enhanced effort on countryside revitalisation in
Lai Chi Wo, and implement an ecological conservation project in Sha Lo Tung.
We will keep under review the implementation of the initiative and the
effectiveness of these projects from time to time, and will extend the initiative
progressively to other remote countryside areas.
80
Heritage Conservation
Intangible Cultural Heritage
251. We announced the first Representative List of the Intangible Cultural
Heritage of Hong Kong (Representative List) in August 2017, which comprises
20 items of high cultural value and with an urgent need for preservation. They
include nanyin (southern tunes), sek pun (basin feast), paper crafting technique
and Hong Kong‑style milk tea making technique, etc. The Government will
closely liaise with the respective organisations and bearers, and organise
thematic exhibitions and a wide range of activities to enhance public
knowledge of the items on the Representative List. The Government will
continue to encourage various sectors of the community to participate in and
support the protection of intangible cultural heritage.
Historic Buildings
252. The invaluable cultural heritage of Hong Kong stands witness to the
historical development of our city. The Government adopts a multi‑pronged
approach in promoting heritage conservation, which includes enforcement of
the Antiquities and Monuments Ordinance, implementing the grading
mechanism for historic buildings, providing subsidies and grants under the
Built Heritage Conservation Fund, implementing the Revitalising Historic
Buildings Through Partnership Scheme (Revitalisation Scheme) and organising
promotional and public education activities, etc. So far, five batches of projects
under the Revitalisation Scheme have been rolled out, involving a total of
19 projects, including the “Viva Blue House” at the Blue House Cluster in
Wan Chai, which was opened last month. Various projects under the signature
initiative of Conserving Central are completed one by one. Furthermore, the
“Heritage Vogue • Hollywood Road” street carnival held in July this year was
well‑received with enthusiastic public participation. We will continue to
organise similar activities for public enjoyment in future.
Arts and Culture
253. Arts and culture are the soul of a city. They enrich people’s life,
support diversification of industries, promote tourism and provide alternative
employment opportunities for young people. After years of planning and
preparation, the much anticipated West Kowloon Cultural District (WKCD) is
gradually becoming a prominent landmark on the waterfront of the Victoria
Harbour. Major facilities of the WKCD to be completed in the next few years
include the Xiqu Centre, the M+ Museum, the Lyric Theatre Complex, the
Freespace, the Art Park and the Hong Kong Palace Museum. I am pleased that 
81
as the WKCD progresses to the next stage, the Hon. Henry TANG Ying‑yen has
agreed to assume once again the chairmanship of the Board of the West
Kowloon Cultural District Authority (WKCDA) to lead the WKCDA team to
start a new chapter in Hong Kong’s arts and culture sector.
254. In addition to the WKCD, the Government will strive to provide an
environment conducive to arts and cultural development. Apart from
exploring ways to assist the arts and cultural sector in the context of the review
of the industrial building revitalisation policy conducted by the Development
Bureau, the Government would also continue to identify suitable locations for
development into arts space. With the support of the Government, the Hong
Kong Arts Development Council (HKADC) is looking into the possibility of
opening new arts space in revitalised industrial or commercial buildings
offered by private owners for use by young artists at affordable rentals based
on the mode of operation of the “ADC Arts Space” in Wong Chuk Hang.
255. The realm of arts knows no boundary. Let us not forget that there is a
much wider world outside Hong Kong, where our arts sector has gradually
earned a fine reputation with years of hard work. During the year, to
complement the celebration events organised for the 20th anniversary of Hong
Kong’s return to our Motherland, we have arranged arts groups to stage
performances both within and outside Hong Kong. These performances won
wide acclaim. To consolidate Hong Kong’s status as an international cultural
metropolis and to create more opportunities for our young artists, we will
allocate more resources to support the local arts and cultural sector. In the next
few years, we will increase the resources support for local artists and arts
groups to perform and stage exhibitions outside Hong Kong and for hosting
Hong Kong Week in some of the major Mainland cities to showcase the essence
of Hong Kong arts. We will also provide a funding of $36 million in the
coming six years for continuing the training scheme for arts administrators and
encouraging young artistic talents to study and exchange experience with their
counterparts elsewhere.
256. We also attach importance to cultivating the cultural literacy of our
younger generation and building a wider audience base. In this connection, the
Government will support the work of the HKADC in fostering further
collaboration between arts groups and schools. This will help promote the
better use of school premises as arts space as well as nurture students’ interests
in arts, thereby laying a foundation for future cultural development in Hong
Kong.
82
Sports Development
257. The Government is taking forward the Kai Tak Sports Park Project to
provide modernised and multi‑purpose facilities to support holistic sports
development and the hosting of more world‑class sports events. Having
completed the prequalification process, we will invite qualified tenderers to
submit tenders within this year. The construction works are expected to
commence in the second half of 2018 and be completed between 2022 and 2023.
258. Starting from this school year, the EDB and the HAB have launched
the Opening up School Facilities for Promotion of Sports Development Scheme,
which provides additional subsidies to public sector schools to encourage them
to open up their school facilities to sports associations and help promote a
sporting culture in schools. We will collect views from relevant schools and
sports associations to further enhance the scheme.
259. Following the completion of the Consultancy Study on Sport for People
with Disabilities in Hong Kong and the public consultation on the study, the
HAB developed a detailed work plan in collaboration with stakeholders. One
of the key measures is to launch a pilot scheme to provide full‑time training to
athletes with disabilities and funding support to elite sports for the disabled.
We will draw on the experience gained from the pilot scheme when devising a
long‑term elite support scheme.
260. Ball games played by teams have always been the most popular sports
among students and young people. However, given the larger number of
players involved in team sports, more resources are required to organise
training in order to enhance their chance of achieving good results in major
international games. To promote the development of team ball games, we will
earmark $130 million for the launch of a five‑year development programme to
provide additional funding for the relevant national sports associations to
formulate and implement training programmes for Hong Kong representative
teams to compete in the Asian Games. Funding support will also be offered to
members of Hong Kong representative teams, with the aim of enhancing the
performance of team sports progressively and increasing their chances of
attaining elite sports status in future.
Safe City
261. Public safety is an important indicator of a liveable city. Hong Kong is
one of the safest cities in the world and the overall crime rate in recent years hit
a record low. In view of the rapid development of the global counter‑terrorism
situation and the potential threat posed by terrorism to Hong Kong, the 
83
Government must ensure the adequacy of Hong Kong’s counter‑terrorism
capability and preparedness and reinforce this with continuous enhancement.
We will establish a dedicated Inter‑departmental Counter‑terrorism Unit led by
the Police and comprising relevant law enforcement agencies. The unit will
monitor the global terrorism trends and regimes on countering terrorism,
review and improve counter‑terrorism strategies in Hong Kong, and formulate
measures and action plans in collaboration with relevant departments. The
Government will also strengthen intelligence‑sharing with the
counter‑terrorism agencies elsewhere, and enhance our capabilities in
intelligence gathering and analysis. In addition, we need to develop specialised
training on counter‑terrorism, specialised investigation and capability in
combating and continuously improve the emergency response plans and
enhance public alertness and education.
84
VII. Connecting with Young People
My Belief
262. Young people are our future. They are the most energetic and creative
generation in our society and they possess the greatest potential to drive the
development of our society. I recognise that young people have very different
talents and aspirations. As such, we should support them in fully realising
their potential. We appreciate that young people have great hopes and
aspirations for the future of Hong Kong and possess diverse views on the
current situation. Our community should understand more about their
feelings and needs, give them more support and create room for them to realise
their potential. In the next five years, we will strive to do our best in youth
development work by addressing their concerns about education, career pursuit
and home ownership, and encouraging their participation in politics as well as
public policy discussion and debate. In so doing, the younger generation will
see hope and opportunities for upward mobility. This will, in turn, help
address deep‑rooted social conflicts. Young people should also be given more
opportunities to participate in public affairs so that the Government can better
understand their views and suggestions and take them into account.
Youth Development Commission
263. The Youth Development Commission, to be chaired by the Chief
Secretary for Administration, will be set up in the first half of 2018 to enhance
policy co‑ordination within the Government. This would enable holistic and
more effective examination of, and discussion on issues of concern to young
people. This will also promote collaboration across bureaux and departments
in the implementation of policy initiatives agreed by the Commission. In
addition, I will chair youth summits to examine the outcome of the
Commission’s work jointly with stakeholders and listen to the views of young
people.
Stepping up Communication with Young People
264. We strive to enhance communication with young people. My political
team and myself, will listen and respond to the views and aspirations of young
people through different channels, such as regular school visits to meet
students and listen to their views. Through these activities, we can show more
care, listen more, take more concrete action and interact more with young
people. We will also make good use of various channels, including making 
85
better use of social media and online platforms, to connect with youngsters so
that the Government will be able to attain a better understanding of their ideas
and proposals and take them on board in a more effective manner.
Furthermore, the HAB will launch a “Youth Ambassadors” scheme and
reinforce the district youth networks in the 18 districts. We will continue to
step up effort in the promotion of youth development and enhancement of
liaison and communication with young people at different levels.
Participation of Young People in Policy Discussion
265. As mentioned earlier, we will appoint more young people to various
government boards and committees with the aim of increasing the overall ratio
of youth members (i.e. persons who are aged between 18 and 35) to 15% within
the current‑term Government. As a start, we will invite young people to
become members of specified boards and committees by self‑recommendation
through the pilot member self‑recommendation scheme.
Participation of Young People in Politics
266. The Government will recruit 20 to 30 young people aspiring to pursue
a career in policy research as well as policy and project co‑ordination to join
the proposed Policy Innovation and Co‑ordination Unit on a non‑civil service
contract basis, so that they can gain experience in public administration and the
voices of young people can be heard at senior levels of the Government. We
expect that those recruited will be able to start participating in the work of the
proposed Unit when it formally commences operation.
Expectation on Young People
267. Young people should develop a positive outlook to life, a commitment
to society, a sense of national identity, a love for Hong Kong and an
international perspective. The Government will enhance collaboration with
various community organisations, in particular uniformed groups and
volunteer organisations, to provide more opportunities for young people to
participate in community affairs and to serve the community. This would
instil in them a positive attitude towards life and perseverance. Besides,
exchange and internship schemes in the Mainland and overseas in various
formats and on different themes will be organised. Through these schemes, we
seek to enhance young people’s understanding of the prevailing economic,
social and cultural landscape at the national and international levels, and
promote their acceptance of different cultures through exchanges with young
people from the Mainland and overseas.
86
Broadening Horizons
Scholarship for Excellence Scheme
268. Starting from the 2019/20 school year, we will regularise the Hong
Kong Scholarship for Excellence Scheme to continue to support up to 100
outstanding local students per cohort to pursue studies in world‑renowned
universities outside Hong Kong with a view to grooming a top cadre of talent
with global vision, international network and world‑class education. The
graduates would contribute towards the long‑term economic and social
development of Hong Kong.
Overseas Internships Arranged by Economic and Trade Offices
269. In recent years, our overseas ETOs have arranged for Hong Kong
higher education students to take up summer internships provided by different
organisations in the countries under their purview. These internships help the
students to gain an understanding of the work culture in different places and
broaden their perspectives. The ETOs will continue to actively promote the
scheme and encourage more organisations to participate in order to make
available more opportunities for our students to take up overseas internships.
Enhanced Internship in the Mainland
270. We will continue to allocate additional resources to take forward and
enhance various youth development programmes in the coming five years. In
particular, more internship opportunities in the Mainland, the Belt and Road
countries and other parts of the world will be provided for our young people.
These internships aim to enhance their understanding of the work culture and
career prospects in different places, allow them to establish interpersonal
networks, broaden their horizons and assist their future career planning. The
Youth Internship Programme at the Palace Museum and the Youth Internship
Programme at Wolong National Nature Reserve, both held for the first time
and completed in August this year, are good examples. These two
programmes attracted the participation of Hong Kong young people who are
interested in culture and nature conservation. Through the programmes,
participants have gained more knowledge in the relevant disciplines and
professional fields. They have also acquired a better understanding of the
development of our country on various fronts. Looking ahead, we will provide
more enhanced internship opportunities with special features in Mainland
provinces and cities for young people in Hong Kong to deepen their
understanding of the latest developments and opportunities in our country.
87
Working Holiday
271. In order to provide more opportunities for our young people to
appreciate different cultures and the development of other countries (including
the Belt and Road countries), the Government will proactively sign more
Working Holiday Scheme agreements with suitable countries. This would
enable Hong Kong young people aged 18 to 30 to learn more about the local
customs and culture as well as the social development of various countries
through travelling, thus broadening their horizons.
Space Sharing Scheme for Youth
272. Many local enterprises have been actively fulfilling their corporate
social responsibilities, with the objective of making a contribution to the
community through concrete actions, in particular helping our young people.
Through a “Community‑Business‑Government” tripartite partnership, we will
implement a Space Sharing Scheme for Youth. The Scheme is a platform for
owners of revitalised industrial buildings and commercial buildings to
contribute floor areas for the operation of co‑working space or studios, to
support start‑ups of emerging industries and young people who are starting
their own businesses, and to support the development of arts and culture.
Participating owners will rent out floor areas to suitable non‑governmental
organisations at a rent no more than one‑third of the market rental for
operating the co‑working space or studios under the Scheme. Alternatively,
they may operate such space directly on their own. The operators will provide
a wide range of leasing options and supporting services for start‑ups, young
entrepreneurs and artists at a concessionary rent no higher than half of the
market rental. We expect to roll out the first batch of about 60 000 square feet
of shared space for youth in the first half of 2018. I appeal for the participation
of more owners of revitalised industrial and commercial buildings in the
scheme, in a bid to drive all sectors of the community to support young people
in pursuing innovation and starting their own businesses.
88
VIII. Conclusion
273. The year 2017 marks the 20th anniversary of Hong Kong’s return to the
Motherland. At this important juncture, I pledge in my capacity as Chief
Executive that I will lead my governing team to make our best endeavour to
ensure that:
• our children will grow up healthily and happily in a caring
environment that is inspiring and creative;
• our younger generation will be able to apply their talents to build
fulfilling lives for themselves;
• citizens in the prime of their lives will enjoy a stable and
satisfying environment so that they can continue to prosper and
provide for their families; and
• all our senior citizens will have marvellous golden years.
274. My vision is for a Hong Kong of hope and happiness — a city we are
all proud to call our home. I see a vibrant international metropolis that is just,
civilised, safe, affluent, enjoys the rule of law, compassionate and
well‑governed. To achieve this vision, we need to have a society that is united,
harmonious and caring. This vision is not, in reality, that far off. In fact, it has
been Hong Kong’s way to success for more than half a century. We have not
lost our intrinsic advantages, Hong Kong people are still brilliant and the Hong
Kong spirit has not been eroded. As long as we can connect and achieve
consensus, and capitalise on our strengths, the future of Hong Kong is bright.
275. Let us connect for hope and happiness!